How do you restrict the size of a file being uploaded with JavaScript ( or Java ) without transferring the entire file ?
Is there a way to validate on the client side browser whether the size of a file being uploaded from a JSP page is over a set size limit without forcing the user to upload the entire file only to find out it was too large ? I would like to stay away from any proprietary controls or techniques like Flash or ActiveX if possible . Thanks !
This isn't a perfect solution , but if you check the Content-Length HTTP header with request.getHeader ( " Content-Length ") then you can choose to not transfer the entire file . By way of explanation , an extremely large file will not be transferred all at once . You'd have to actually open a stream representing that chunk of POST data and read from it for the entire thing to be transfered . On the other hand , if you're worried about denial-of-service attacks , then you can't really trust the Content-Length header , because it can easily be forged . In this case , you should set a limit and stream a transfer of this file , stopping as soon as you've exceeded that limit .
Suggest you reconsider the Flash decision and take a look at the YUI Uploader , here : http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/uploader Among other things , the fileSelect event will tell you the size of the selected file in bytes immediately after it is selected but before it's uploaded , so you'll be able to restrict accordingly .
With JSP or PHP you won't be able to restrict the file size because your page won't get the request until the upload has already happened . At that point you can decide not to save the file but that might be too late . There are some Java solutions out there , e.g. MyUploader or Hermes . Some even support multiple file uploads and resuming partial uploads , and some also give you the source code . You can also write your own , but it will need to be a signed applet in order to function because it needs to access the local filesystem . If you're using Apache as your webserver you'll need enough RAM in your machine to fit the whole file size in memory of all files being uploaded at a given time .
