JavaScript or Java String Subtraction
If you are using Java or JavaScript, is there a good way to do something like a String subtraction so that given two strings: you just get I know that I could just write code to walk the string comparing characters, but I was hoping there was a way to do it in  really compact way.   EDIT TO ADD:  As I was analyzing the data I get when I use this I realized that I missed the statement of the case a bit.  It should be:  So, I actually only want to remove the sections that are identical.  That said, the answer that I accepted is closest to my goal.
I don't see how JavaScript is relevant here...
How isn't it?  You never need to remove a string from another string in javascript?  Granted, all solutions have been posted in java, but that doesn't invalidate the question.
LOL - okay then, let's tag this as Java/JavaScript/C#/VB.NET/Python/Ruby/erlang/Smalltalk/Lisp/etc... My point is, JavaScript and Java have nothing in common other than syntax shared with C#, C, C++, etc. and this is not really a JavaScript solution.
Should work... EDIT: Apache commons libraries are also great to use As noted below, the StringUtils class does in fact have a method for this: StringUtils.remove()
Can't you just replace the occurrences of the first string in the second with an empty string ?
Depends on  precisely  what you want.  If you're looking for a way to compare strings in the general case -- meaning finding common sub-strings between arbitrary inputs -- then you're looking at something closer to the Levenshtein distance and similar algorithms.  However, if all you need is prefix/suffix comparison, this should work: ...or something roughly to that effect.
Thanks Chris and Daniel (and all the rest of you).  That was amazingly fast.
This seems like way too much code for what's requested - Erickson's approach (replace string B in string A with empty string) is much simpler and readable.
@Herb  Agreed, I do like Erickson's (and Chris's) approach much better for readability.  However, his doesn't enforce strict prefix/suffix.  The problem I have is the question is a bit ill-defined: what does String difference really mean?
If you're just trying to get whatever's after the last dot, I find this method easy in Javascript: subString will contain the value you're looking for.
At first glance, I thought of RegExp, but adding to the question, you removed that possibility by adding to the start-string ... So you'll have to make a procedure, that takes every character that are equal out of the resulting string, something like this: By the way it doesn't have a meaning to set Java and javascript as equals in any context, a popular way of putting it could be:  Java and javascript has four things in common: j - a - v - a !-)
Though this relies on that the character with code 1 does not appear in any of those strings.
