Sending a value from javascript to jsp ( with jquery )
right now i have a jsp page that allows to sort some items , when is ready and a link is clicked a javascript function converts all the info into xml ( text in a variable ) , after this i need to send this xml to the jsp page again , i tried putting the info in a hidden input and submiting the form , sending with $ . post and a few more jquery functions but nothing worked . Any ideas ? in my JSP im reading the post like this : This doesnt work : This either : replacing . text with . html doesnt work Any ideas are welcome , thx
You could always use an XMLHttpRequest to send the data . This can be done with our without user interaction on an element such as a form submit button . jQuery has functionality built in for assisting with such requests . http://docs.jquery.com/Ajax
Suggesting another library is like creating a mess here . JQuery is as good as Prototype in making AJAX calls , if not better .
Trying using the jQuery Ajax API - you can use it to send arbitrary data via GET or POST and you don't need to set up a hidden form or anything .
Yes , we don't submit forms , like we traditionally do . A sound suggestion .
You're probably going the wrong way here . You didn't provide the html code , but I assume it is something like this : If that is correct , then you should say $ ( " #data ") . val ( xml ); instead of text() or html() as those change the matched thing with text or html you provide . This should work for your current solution . Also I'd propose to look at jQuery's $ . post() and others as an alternative to packing everything as xml unless this is really what you want on the backend . It could be easier to just make up a javascript object with all the values keyed by some names and pass it on to one of jQuery's $ . post() , $ . get() , etc . like this : Actually it only occured to me now that you can also send your xml this way ( unless you prefer your way of doing things ): You might want to enlighten yourself more here : Ajax @ jQuery docs
