JSF Richfaces frontend performance tuning
I've developed a web application using MyFaces 1.2 . 6 and Richfaces 3.3 . 1GA ( just upgrated ) . Despite the ease of use , I found out that Richfaces components are very slow . I also found out that they didn't really take advantage of the browser caching mechanism , they keep sending some lousy JS file every request and other things . I really would like to apply some rules described in the " High PErformance WEbsites " book , but I can't change de generated js and HTML code . Does anyone have some tips for frontend performance tuning using Richfaces ? Thanks .
Have a read of this article . Are you using Firebug + YSlow to check what is being stored in the cache ? Using the web.xml org.richfaces.LoadScriptStrategy setting , you can tell Richfaces to either : Load all script in one file . Load no scripts ( you do it yourself instead - eg . in the manner prescribed by your book ) . Load scripts when needed ( the default ) . But some basic principles : Never put logic into your getters . They are called multiple times and should only return something already populated by another method . For example if you are chaining drop-downs together use an a4j : support tag on the first one with an action attribute that loads the data which is then retrieved when you reRender the second one . Use the ajaxSingle= " true " unless you actually want to send the whole form back to the server . Don't use a rich component if you only need a normal one . For example don't use rich :d ataTable unless you are making use of some of the features that it has over and above h :d ataTable .
+1 . And this is a second article by Dan Allen ( he is the author of both articles , and author of Seam in Action ): http://www.jsfcentral.com/articles/speed_up_your_jsf_app_2
You can use : org.ajax4jsf.DEFAULT_EXPIRE 31536000 So that all js , css files ( generated by richfaces ) are cached for 1 year on the browser . This really improved speed in our project . Also , we do not need to worry about if we change richfaces version as when we change richfaces version it will generate different files .
To add on to Damo , you can also add a small filter to cache such js or images to improve the performance . But exert caution in doing this , if files intended to cach involve frequent updates .
