How to relate ga : campaign and ga :p agePath ( content ) on Google Analytics Export API ?
Using custom reports you are able to drill down on a specific campaign and then choose the Landing Page or content page that the individual visitor choose . When I try to retrieve the same information through the Google Analytics Export API , I get an error if I try to relate those two dimensions in my feed . Is there any success story about getting this information together . I know is possible , we just don't know what is the correct combination . Since I had no progress on this issue during the last week I thought about giving a little more information . I am presenting below a screen shot of an actual report of the Google Analytics UI givin the information that I am trying to pull and I am getting no info . Basically the campaing information group by the pagePage landed . So I am able to know who clicked on my emails and where that person landed . I just found other people with the same questions on the Google Analytic Help Forum .
I just tried it with some GA data . It seems to be picky about what metric you join it to but ga :p ageviews works . Both ga : campaign and ga :p agePath are dimensions and you need to join them to a metric . You can reference GA documentation here regarding what are the valid combinations . As an example , I managed to retrieve a really long report using ( replace with your profile id ): Hope this helps .
Thanks for your reply . I am trying to execute your sample with my table id , but I cannot get it to work . I am getting an Authorization Required . I am authenticating with Google Analytics before requesting the URI . Let me know if you know what steps to take before executing the script . Thanks again .
You need to authenticate to GA separately by sending an extra header in the http request . See http://code.google.com/apis/gdata/articles/using_cURL.html and http://code.google.com/apis/analytics/docs/gdata/1.0/gdataProtocol.html
If you are using java or servlet , you can use authentication method in analytics api to authenticate first , and then you can retrieve data from the profile of that user .
