jQuery and Java applets
  I'm working on a project where we're using a Java applet for part of the UI (a map, specifically), but building the rest of the UI around the applet in HTML/JavaScript, communicating with the applet through LiveConnect/NPAPI. A little bizarre, I know, but let's presume that setup is not under discussion. I started out planning on using jQuery as my JavaScript framework, but I've run into two issues.       Issue the first:        Selecting the applet doesn't provide access to the applet's methods.     Java:       JavaScript:       Running the above JavaScript results in       This is in contrast to Prototype, where the analogous code does work:       So...where'd the applet methods go?       Issue the second:       There's a known problem with jQuery and applets in Firefox 2:    http://www.pengoworks.com/workshop/jquery/bug_applet/jquery_applet_bug.htm       It's a long shot, but does anybody know of a workaround? I suspect this problem isn't fixable, which will mean switching to Prototype.     Thanks for the help!  
  For the first issue, how about trying       For the second issue here is a    thread    with a possible workaround.     Quoting the workaround           change that code to:        
How does one record audio from a Javascript based webapp?
  I'm trying to write a web-app that records WAV files (eg: from the user's microphone). I know Javascript alone can not do this, but I'm interested in the least proprietary method to augment my Javascript with. My targeted browsers are Firefox for PC and Mac (so no ActiveX). Please share your experiences with this. I gather it can be done with Flash (but not as a WAV formated file). I gather it can be done with Java (but not without code-signing). Are these the only options?       @dominic-mazzoni    I'd like to record the file as a WAV because because the purpose of the webapp will be to assemble a library of    good    quality short soundbites. I estimate upload will be 50 MB, which is well worth it for the quality. The app will only be used on our intranet.     UPDATE: There's now an alternate solution thanks to JetPack's upcoming Audio API: See    https://wiki.mozilla.org/Labs/Jetpack/JEP/18    
Maybe you find this useful: https://github.com/milani/microphone.js
  Flash is going to be your best solution.     Hopefully this will help:    http://www.kirupa.com/forum/showthread.php?t=17331    
  Yes I believe Flash or a Java-Applet are the only ways to do that. Since you cannot interact with a microphone you must use some sort of browser-plugin, its the only way to use the microphone. I'm not aware of any other plugin that would provide that features. A quick search on Google did not reveal any further possibilities. I think the easiest would be going with Flash.  
  Your only options are Flash, Java, ActiveX, or writing a custom Firefox extension.  Flash is probably your best option - you could write or use an existing Flash app to do the recording and keep almost everything else in pure Javascript.     Why do you want a WAV file?  If you're planning to process the actual bits of the waveform on the client, then that's probably a bad idea; the client might be really slow and you wouldn't be able to really manipulate the file.  If you want to send the sound back to the server, then it's much better to send a compressed file, and then uncompress it on the server.  
  Flash requires you to use a media server (note: I'm still using Flash MX, but a quick Google search brings up documentation for Flash CS3 that seems to concur - note that Flash CS4 is out soon, might change then). Macromedia / Adobe aim to flog you their media server, but the Red5 open-source project might be suitible for your project:       http://osflash.org/red5       I think Java is going to be more suitible. I've seen an applet that might do what you want over on Moodle (an open-source virtual learning environment):       http://64.233.183.104/search?q=cache:k27rcY8QNWoJ:moodle.org/mod/forum/discuss.php%3Fd%3D51231+moodlespeex   hl=en   ct=clnk   cd=1   gl=uk       (membership-required site, but open to Google, hence the link goes to the Google cache page).  
As of Flash 10 you do not need a media server.  You can capture the raw samples and send them to an arbitrary back-end with an HTTP post.  https://code.google.com/p/wami-recorder/
  You could download Real Producer Basic, which is free here (   http://forms.real.com/rnforms/products/tools/producerbasic/   ), and imbed it as an activeX object since it's on your intranet.  Flash will embed the same way, it's on all the office workstations, but since this is your Intranet, you could install it on all the machines with AD.  Real audio files are very small compared to wav and sound great.  Here's a link to the Real Sudio ActiveX how-to guide.     http://service.real.com/help/library/guides/activex/producerx.html    
  This is a paid solution but it will do what you are looking for.        http://www.javasonics.com/    
  Another solution if you don't mind your users installing a plugin is to use Runtime Revolution RevWeb plugin which supports recording audio in browser (and is trivial to implement, I made a test applet to confirm this in about 10 minutes).     http://revweb.runrev.com/    
  This is an old thread, but the issue remains relevant.  It should be noted that there is a way to record audio to the server in Flash without a proprietary back-end.  Here's an example project to get you started:       https://code.google.com/p/wami-recorder/    
I'd say this answer is better than the accepted one from 2008, as it has the same effect but a dedicated server component is not required. It is still not a complete solution as it will not work on Apple mobile devices, which are widespread. Hopefully a reasonable cross platform standard which combines native recording, an open file format and plain HTTP post will emerge soon.
Write a Servlet that Talks to JMS (ActiveMQ) and OnMessage Update the Site
  I am building a site that uses a simple AJAX Servlet to talk JMS (ActiveMQ) and when a message arrives from the topic to update the site.     I have Javascript that creates an XMLHttpRequest for data. The Servlet processes the Get Request and sends back JSON. However I have no idea how to connect my Servlet into my ActiveMQ Message Broker. It just sends back dummy data right now.     I am thinking the Servelt should implement the messagelistener. Then onMessage send data to the JavaScript page. But I'm not sure how to do this.  
  You probably need to get a JMS connection from JNDI, like this:    
Okay... this is a good way to connect to my Topic, thanks. I already have code like this is another Java Client. But I want the Servelt to implement the messagelistener. Then onMessage send data to the Javascript page.
  The problem with having a servlet implement MessageListener is that servlets are synchronous and MessageListeners are asynchronous.  Instead you should create some other object to act as the MessageListener and update some state somewhere (possibly a database or a JMX MBean or a Stateful Session EJB) when messages come in.  Then the servlet can query that state to see if there's data to report back to the client, and your web page can periodically ping the servlet to ask for fresh data.  
Thanks jodonnell.. I have never wrote a JMX MBean or Stateful Session EJB but after a quick google search I think this is the right path to look down. Thanks for the help.
  Have you tried reading the answers for    this question    which links to the    ActiveMQ Ajax support   . Basically ActiveMQ has native support for Ajax so you can use its JavaScript library to directly subscribe from an ActiveMQ topic.      Also see the    ActiveMQ web samples    which show how to do things like real time chat or real time stock portfolio screens using Ajax with ActiveMQ  
  As James Strachan says -    http://activemq.apache.org/ajax.html    is an ideal out-of-the-box solution for your problem.     If you still want to create such solution manually you can just create JMS connection in your Ajax servlet (connection per request). Consider using Spring JMS template for that reason (    http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/2.5.x/reference/jms.html    ). Then just receive the message in the Servlet doGet/doPost method. Consider low timeout value for receiving in that case. Such solution will work for the Queues and durable Topics.     For non-durable Topics consider external message listener. Spring    MessageListenerContainer    is an excellent tool for that purpose:       Bean    lastTenUpdatesCache    will be a singleton bean implementing    MesssageListener   . This bean would be responsible for caching last ten messages (just putting it into a java.util list). It will be injected into your Ajax servlet so in your doGet/doPost method you can ask it about last 10 messages sent to the topic.  
Integration of JavaScript and JMS
  Where can I find a guide for integrating JavaScript and JMS (Java Messaging Service)?     I would like a best practice or established technology that allows me to directly or indirectly receive messages from a topic and update a site based on the message. I was thinking of creating two components, a servlet for the Web module, and an MDB (Message-Driven Bean) for the EJB module. The web client will comsume messages from the JMS topic, and the MDB will handle the onMessage.     Does this sound correct? Have you seen any examples?     Edit: I am using ActiveMQ for the JMS.  
  I would try using    DWR    to integrate JavaScript with your Java app. It makes Java to JavaScript communication transparent and only requires one servlet + configuration of what to expose. I haven t done this with JMS, but it should work the same. There are three technologies that together solve all my integration problems,    Spring   ,    Mule   , and DWR.  
I'll second DWR - excellent (and painless!) to integrate any server-side based Java and JavaScript on the client front-end
  You'll find some references to the Dojo/Bayeux approach here       http://www.pathf.com/blogs/2006/08/bayeux_a_json_p/       If you're using WebSphere 6.0 or higher then the Web 2.0 Feature Pack includes an implementation.  
  I think    this    is your answer.  Looks like it is baked in to ActieMQ.  I tried the examples and they seem to work.       http://activemq.apache.org/ajax.html    
I was able to get the examples to work on Version 5.0 of ActiveMQ. However they have trouble running in 5.1. Which version of ActiveMQ are you running?
We did have a lot of problems with this servlet, and we did abandon it completely...
  The    Seam framework    supports subscription to JMS topics from a JavaScript based client:       http://docs.jboss.com/seam/2.0.2.GA/reference/en-US/html/remoting.html#d0e14169    
How to conduct blackbox testing on an AJAX application?
  What's the best, crossplatform way to perform blackbox tests on AJAX web applications?     Ideally, the solution should have the following attributes:       Able to integrate into a continuous integration build loop     Cross platform so I you can run it on Windows laptops and Linux continuous integration servers     Easy way to script the interactions     Free-as-in-freedom so you can adapt it into your tool chain if necessary       I've looked into HttpUnit but I'm not conviced it can handle AJAX-heavy websites.  
  Selenium might be what you're looking for:    http://selenium.openqa.org/       It allows you to script actions and evaluate the results. It's open-source (Apache 2.0), cross platform, and has nice tools.  
  I have used Selenium for exactly this task, but found it to be brittle.     Check out this talk by two Googlers:    Does my button look big in this? Building testable AJAX applications       They isolate the testable javascript (non DOM-interaction) and test that using the Rhino javascript engine.  
What is the best way to use Ext JS as part of Java / Spring / Hibernate based web application?
  We want to try Ext JS on new project. Is there any well-known best practice for integrating Ext JS with server side Java (Spring/Hibernate/JS) application? Is DWR a good choice for that?  
  It's perfectly fine to build your application using Ext JS/DWR/Spring/Hibernate.  
  Yes it's possible.      I've done the same thing with .NET : UI in ext-JS which communicates with the server trough JSON. In .NET world you can use DataContractSerializer (class from WCF) or JavascriptSerializer (ASP.NET)     I'm sure that there's several good JSON Serializer in the Java world too. I used    Jabsorb    (but not enough to give you a solid feedback). It appears that other people have tried : [link text][2]     [2]:    http://extjs.com/forum/showthread.php?t=30759    forum ext-js  
  In our application we subclass    Ext.data.DataProxy    like this:       You use it with a store like so:       Our actual proxy class has some additional debug and error handling code that I left out for simplicity. You may also need to manipulate your data slightly so that the    Ext.data.JsonReader    can handle it, but that's the basic idea. SomeService is the JavaScript name you specified for whatever bean you exposed in dwr.xml (or your Spring config).  
  My team has been using Ext with DWR for almost year a year, and have had nothing but good things to say.  If you take this approach, you will end up using DWR's generated JavaScript classes for making your requests to the server.  This will often be done in place of using the Ext.Ajax and Ext.data.Connection classes.  When you use a class that require an Ext.data.Store (e.g. grip, combo box, etc.) and you want to fetch data from the server, you will need to use a proxy that can link in with DWR.  The user-community provided Ext.ux.data.DWRProxy has worked flawlessly for us:    http://extjs.com/forum/showthread.php?t=23884   .  
Just wanted to report that we are doing this now and it works quite good. We also are using DWRProxy just like suggested.
  Take a look at Grails, it plays well together with ExtJS.  
What is the best way to handle photo uploads?
  I'm doing a website for a family member's wedding. A feature they requested was a photo section where all the guests could go after the wedding and upload their snaps. I said this was a stellar idea and I went off to build it.     Well there's just the one problem: logistics. Upload speeds are slow and photos from modern cameras are huge (2-5+Megs).      I will only need ~800px wide images and some of them might require rotating so ideally I'm looking about using a client-side editor to do three things:       Let users pick multiple files     Let them rotate some images so they're the right way up     Resize them and then upload       And in my dream world, it'd be free and open source. Any ideas?     Just a reminder: this is something the guests have to use. Some of them will be pretty computer savvy but others will be almost completely illiterate. Installing desktop apps isn't really an option. And I assume 98% of them have Flash and Java installed.     Edit: I'd prefer a Flash/Java option over SilverLight, not least because it has a smaller install rate at the moment, but also because I'm on Linux and I'd like to test it =)  
You could use moonlight in order to test your application.
    Picasa    is a pretty great/free photo management app. It let's you do some pretty impressive editing, and has upload capabilities, though I can't remember if it will upload to anywhere, or just certain popular sites (like Flickr).  
Sorry I should have clarified. This is for the guests, not for me. Some of these people are computer illiterate =(
Oh, do you want this to run in the web page? For lack of a better word, as an Applet?
Picasa only uploads to google's service, picasaweb.  It's still useful for editing the photos, but you'd still want to have an uploader if you want it to go to an arbitrary site.
Yes, an Applet of some sorts would be what I'm looking for. I've edited the main post a couple of times to outline that now.
Just say in big letters "embedded in the web page" :-p
  You could use Silverlight or Flash or some custom plugin to allow managed uploads, where you can display a progress bar for example. There isn't much you can do about upload speeds but you can at least show them progress while it's going on.     I don't know of any canned upload programs you can use but it shouldn't be too hard to make one (unless you don't know Flash or Silverlight).  
  GIMP (   http://www.gimp.org/   ) is a good tool for doing resize and is open source.  
Really? Your suggestions for people that are "almost completely illiterate" is GIMP?
  I have had good luck with    Gallery   . It is free, open source, and has all the features you mentioned.     It will allow your users to upload photos without any intervention from you.  
  How about using    PhotoShop Online    It allows you to edit photos with a web based editor and offers 2GB of storage. I've not used it myself so don't know if it allows for multiple users to access the same account though  
  Out of curiosity, on what web stack is this to run?  LAMP? 2k3+IIS? etc etc?  Many of the open source solutions out there are cross-platform but others are not...  
  Another option could be to allow people to upload their photos to whatever service they're used to using (flickr, google, smugmug, or any other), and just accept a username for that service, or a URL for the folder.       Then you can have your application grab a copy of those pictures to store locally with a consistent interface.  
I think this is the sanest solution. Online photo-hosting sites already have tools to resize and rotate photos, so why reinvent the wheel? Flickr has lots of options for getting data via feeds: http://www.flickr.com/services/feeds/
  Is    E-mailing the photo in    an available option?     Most people who want to share photos probably already know how to send photos in email. And most email clients has already solved the problems of file uploading.     Just setup one gmail/whatevermail account and have your website poll the inbox.     It's something like what    TwitPic    does for twitter but your requirements seem to be more simpler than that.  
  If you are doing this with Flash and using Flickr, then I would check out the AS3 Flickr library:       http://code.google.com/p/as3flickrlib/       which has support for uploading images.     Upload requires authentication. The library also contains a Flex based control for handling this:       http://www.mikechambers.com/blog/2008/08/12/flex-based-flickr-api-authorization-control/       (the rest of the library is ActionScript 3 and can be used in Flex or Flash.     Probably the easiest solution is to just have the images uploaded to Flickr, edited in Picnik (built into Flickr now), and then loaded onto the users site using either the Flickr RSS feeds or APIs:       http://www.flickr.com/help/picnik/         http://www.flickr.com/services/api/       hope that helps...     mike chambers     mesh@adobe.com  
  Personally most users don't understand DPI and their images even trimmed down end up larger than the php.ini for most hosting companies allow.     I'm not sure how much control you want to give them or how you want the public side to behave.     I'd suggest using a dropbox FTP application such as    http://etonica.com/dropbox/index.html    (tango dropbox)  It's free to your clients and you only have to pay for your version so you can set up the FTP information and secure it.     I'd have them download something link paint.net (which is FREE) have them edit the photos to the proper size and then just drag and drop them to this application.  it's easy and doesn't require php.ini to be modified.     You could also use something like slideshowpro's director application.  
  I completly agree with zigdon, allow different sites, but only pick up photos from the web.  I you still want to allow uploads, and put a cap on size.     Now, if you want to throw yourself into something big, I would suggest putting a cap on size, and then using JQuery (or other library) to work with the images.     Just my 2 cents  
  You could also have them email the pictures to picasa.  Picasa web has a feature where you can send images to a "secret" email that will post them to a picasa account.  Set up a picasa account, distribute the "secret" email, and wait for all the pictures to show up.  
  I'd use an applet. You could do the resizing of the pictures and rotating on the client side.     It looks like    JUpload    may do this for you.  
  I've used swfupload quite a bit. It's pretty awesome:    http://www.swfupload.org/    
Oh thank god man, this is exactly what I was looking for on a project I'm right in the middle of. You're a savior!!! Thanks.
  Going the Flickr route is easy and will work well.     If you want to go more advanced, I'd recommend    snipshot    or    picknik    (Flickr uses it). Both are free to use and have APIs to use.  
  Depends on the web server.  If you can use servlets, try this :     // UploadServlet.java : Proof of Concept - Mike Smith March 2006 // Accept a file from the client, assume it is an image, rescale it and save it to disk for later display import javax.servlet.http.   ; import javax.imageio.   ; import java.io.   ; import java.util.   ; import java.sql.   ; import org.apache.commons.fileupload.   ; import org.apache.commons.fileupload.disk.   ; import org.apache.commons.fileupload.servlet.   ; import java.awt.image.   ; import java.awt.   ;     public class UploadServlet extends HttpServlet  {       }  
  I am currently required to implement the similar requirement as Oli.     I believe Facebook.com use java applet of some sort, and it work pretty well but I am not sure if the applet available as OSS. I am going to look into JUpload suggested by ScArcher2.     If you guy no of any other good applet please keep it coming.  
  The most common solution for this is a java applet, although most of them are not free. Examples:         http://www.jumploader.com/         http://www.aurigma.com/Products/ImageUploader/OnlineDemo.aspx         http://www.javaatwork.com/java-upload-applet/details.html       JUpload, mentioned by ScArcher2    
I *wish* JumpLoader worked on Linux. There's a bug (that I've now reported) with it not loading on IcedTea/OpenJDK.
Well I emailed the JumpLoader creator yesterday, got in a quick MSN message exchange today, and a few minutes later, there was an OpenJDK-compatible version. MAGIC!! JumpLoader is miles better than lots of $50+ solutions and free (with pretty loose restrictions).
I use JumpLoader too, it's a great product. Support is great too, not only do they answer very fast, they fix bugs in a matter of minutes.
  I'd    highly    suggest using    FileBrowser    by Lussomo. It's as easy as 'drag and drop' :D     I've used it for my game development team where we had a raw dump of over 200 concept art images, and we simply extracted FileBrowser to a PHP-enabled webserver and dumped the images in appropriate directories (1 per album), and ran the thumbnailing script. It handles cropping of the images, and optimizing their size for you. So much better than using something like Menalto Gallery where you have to upload them through an awkward upload interface.  
  Try this out   http://www.lunarvis.com/products/tinymcefilebrowserwithupload.php    
How can you run Javascript using Rhino for Java in a sandbox?
  Part of our java application needs to run javascript that is written by non-developers.  These non-developers are using javascript for data formatting. (Simple logic and string concatenation mostly).     My question is how can I setup the execution of these scripts to make sure scripting errors don't have a major negative impact on the rest of the application.       Need to guard against infinite loops     Guard against spawning new threads.       Limit access to services and environment     File system (Example: If a disgruntled script writer decided to delete files)     Database (Same thing delete database records)           Basically I need to setup the javascript scope to only include exactly what they need and no more.  
Do you mean to say (Javascript using Rhino) for (Java in a sandbox), or (Javascript using (Rhino for Java)) (in a sandbox)?
  Javascript is single-threaded and can't access the filesystem, so I don't think you have to worry about those.  I'm not sure if there's a way to set a timeout to guard against infinite loops, but you could always spawn a (Java) thread that executes the script, and then kill the thread after so much time.  
Rhino has a threading library available to it (java.lang.Thread!), and can access the file system.
  To guard against infinite loops, you'd need to put it in a separate process so that it could be killed.     To guard against creating threads, you'd need to extend SecurityManager (the default implementation allows untrusted code to access non-root thread groups).     Java security does allow you to prevent access to the file system.     For database restrictions, you might be able to use the standard SQL user security, but that is quite weak. Otherwise, you need to provide an API that enforces your restrictions.     Edit: I should point out that the version of Rhino provided with JDK6 has had security work done on it, but doesn't include the compiler.  
  To guard against infinite loops, you can observe the instruction count as the script runs (this works only with interpreted scripts, not with compiled ones).     There is this    example in the Rhino JavaDocs    to prevent a script from running for more than ten seconds:    
  To block Java class and method access have a look at...       http://codeutopia.net/blog/2009/01/02/sandboxing-rhino-in-java/    
  I just ran across this blog post that seems to be useful for sandboxing more or less anything (not just Rhino):       http://calumleslie.blogspot.com/2008/06/simple-jvm-sandboxing.html    
Using the javax.script package for javascript with an external src attribute
  Say I have some javascript that if run in a browser would be typed like this...       ... and I want to use the javax.script package in java 1.6 to run this code within a jvm (not within an applet) and get the stuff.  How do I let the engine know the source of the classes to be constructed is found within the remote .ashx file?     For instance, I know to write the java code as...       ...but the "JavaScript" engine doesn't know anything by default about the TheStuff class because that information is in the remote .ashx file.  Can I make it look to the above src string for this?  
  It seems like you're asking:          How can I get    ScriptEngine    to evaluate the contents of a URL instead of just a string?       Is that accurate?       ScriptEngine    doesn't provide a facility for downloading and evaluating the contents of a URL, but it's fairly easy to do.     ScriptEngine    allows you to pass in a    Reader    object that it will use to read the script.     Try something like this:    
No, as far as I know, the ashx file contains the javascript objects that the browser needs to do what it needs to do.  But I want to run this in a jvm and not in my browser.  So the url is not the script but the source of the compiled objects to use in a script.
  Are you trying to access the javascript object in the browser page from a java 1.6 applet? If so, you're going about it in the wrong way. That's not what the scripting engine's for. It's for running javascript within a jvm, not for an applet to accesses javascript from with in a browser.     Here's a    blog entry    that might get you somewhere, but it doesn't look like there's much support.  
I am trying to run javascript within a jvm, but the javascript classes I want to use are not standard classes but rather are in this src file.
Passing JS function to applet for as event listener
  Is it possible to pass a function/callback from javascript to a java applet?     For example i have an applet with a button that when pressed it will call the passed js callback    
  You can use    JSObject    to call back into javascript from Java.     From that page:    
is it also possible to pass js function which is an object as the first argument of win.call instead the name of the js function?
No, but instead of passing in the bare callback function you could create a new object containing it, pass that in then use the object.call(name) form.
  I tend to use something I derived from the reflection example at the bottom of    this page   , as then you don't need to meddle with your classpath to get it to compile     Then I just pass JSON strings around between the applet and javascript  
thx for the link, it just contains all the possible methods
  ps. to use  JSObject you may need to include "MAYSCRIPT" tag to applet html tag.  
JavaScript or Java String Subtraction
  If you are using Java or JavaScript, is there a good way to do something like a String subtraction so that given two strings:       you just get       I know that I could just write code to walk the string comparing characters, but I was hoping there was a way to do it in  really compact way.       EDIT TO ADD:  As I was analyzing the data I get when I use this I realized that I missed the statement of the case a bit.  It should be:        So, I actually only want to remove the sections that are identical.  That said, the answer that I accepted is closest to my goal.  
I don't see how JavaScript is relevant here...
How isn't it?  You never need to remove a string from another string in javascript?  Granted, all solutions have been posted in java, but that doesn't invalidate the question.
LOL - okay then, let's tag this as Java/JavaScript/C#/VB.NET/Python/Ruby/erlang/Smalltalk/Lisp/etc... My point is, JavaScript and Java have nothing in common other than syntax shared with C#, C, C++, etc. and this is not really a JavaScript solution.
    Should work...     EDIT: Apache commons libraries are also great to use     As noted below, the StringUtils class does in fact have a method for this:   StringUtils.remove()    
  Can't you just replace the occurrences of the first string in the second with an empty string ?  
  Depends on    precisely    what you want.  If you're looking for a way to compare strings in the general case -- meaning finding common sub-strings between arbitrary inputs -- then you're looking at something closer to the Levenshtein distance and similar algorithms.  However, if all you need is prefix/suffix comparison, this should work:       ...or something roughly to that effect.  
Thanks Chris and Daniel (and all the rest of you).  That was amazingly fast.
This seems like way too much code for what's requested - Erickson's approach (replace string B in string A with empty string) is much simpler and readable.
@Herb  Agreed, I do like Erickson's (and Chris's) approach much better for readability.  However, his doesn't enforce strict prefix/suffix.  The problem I have is the question is a bit ill-defined: what does String difference really mean?
  If you're just trying to get whatever's after the last dot, I find this method easy in Javascript:       subString will contain the value you're looking for.  
  At first glance, I thought of RegExp, but adding to the question, you removed that possibility by adding to the start-string ...     So you'll have to make a procedure, that takes every character that are equal out of the resulting string, something like this:       By the way it doesn't have a meaning to set Java and javascript as equals in any context, a popular way of putting it could be:      Java and javascript has four things in common: j - a - v - a !-)  
    Though this relies on that the character with code 1 does not appear in any of those strings.  
Java: Scripting language (macro) to embed into a Java desktop application
  I am writing a graphics application in Java. Eventually I would like to build in a scripting language so things are programmable. Which language library do you recommend?     Likely suspects are:         Rhino    (JavaScript)       JRuby    (Ruby)       Jython    (Python)       Less likely candidates are:       Whip up my own language using    JavaCC         LuaJava    (Lua)       Groovy         JavaFX         Script-Fu         The target audience are probably not hardcore programmers, so less arcane language is preferred. My guess is that JavaScript is more acceptable by them even with its quirks just because they've seen it more.      Lua seems to be popular in C/C++, but at least LuaJava requires additional .dll/.so, which makes deployment complicated.     EDIT:   PhiLho    wrote that there's a Java implementation of Lua called    kahlua   .             Related questions:         Which scripting language to support in an existing codebase?    (in C/C++)       Adding Scripting functionality to .net Apps         What is the best scripting language to embed in a C# desktop application.      
  if the target audience is "no programming skills...." choose jython (python) it is easy to learn. (my 7 year old daugther learned it very quick)     Bruce Eckel made a chapter with jython in "thinking in java".     at the danger getting a "down-vote" python is easier as BASIC :-)  
+1 for -BASIC ;o)
  Lua is appreciated, among other things, by the simplicity of the language, making it easy to learn. LuaJava uses the original Lua implementation, making it complete, but as you point it, maybe delicate to install. I know at least a pure Java implementation of Lua:    Kahlua   . It is not complete (lacking coroutine support among other things, but one can do much without them) but perhaps already usable for your goal.     Unlike, say, Groovy, it shouldn't add much overhead to your application...  
  There's also BeanShell, which has the advantage of being a fully-approved JSR, and so perhaps more likely to stick around.       http://www.beanshell.org/    
Plus side: it's basically dynamic Java, so it's really easy to attach it to a Java program. Minus side: it's basically dynamic Java, so it might not be the easiest language to learn.
If I like Java, and I use Java, but I don't want my users to know that they are running Java app, is that sort of like being ashamed of ugly girl friend? No, right?
  You might consider    Jacl   . It is based on Tcl which was originally designed to be an embeddable scripting language. So, one could argue it is much more suited for that purpose than other scripting languages that had the ability to be embedded tacked-on.     Particularly if the target audience is "not hardcore programmers", Jacl makes a fine choice. Intelligent people (and especially those without hard-wired programming prejudices) can easily pick up the Tcl syntax in a morning.  
  If you wanted to go all out you could utilize scripting for the Java Platform as    defined    by JSR 223. Taking that approach would allow the application to utilize any language that has a conforming    script engine   .  
"The Mozilla Rhino engine for the JavaScript programming language, however, is currently included as a feature in the JDK 6 and JRE 6 libraries." Does this put Rhino slightly ahead of everyone else?
In theory it does. I'm not really sure that is what has happened in reality yet.
  Java 6 already has javascript available as a JSR 223 scripting language, out of the box.  
It ships with Rhino, which I commented on laz's answer too. In theory, this is the official endorsement.
  I just read Steve Yegge's    The Universal Design Pattern   . The article is on much broader topic than just embedded scripting in Java application, but since the author writes a Java application that allows scripting (using Jython), there are insightful points I found interesting.          And JavaScript is one of the two best   scripting languages on the planet, in   the most correct sense of the term   "scripting language": namely,   languages that were designed   specifically to be embedded in larger   host systems and then used to   manipulate or "script" objects in the   host system. This is what JavaScript   was designed to do. It's reasonably   small with some optional extensions,   it has a reasonably tight informal   specification, and it has a carefully   crafted interface for surfacing   host-system objects transparently in   JavaScript.           In contrast, Perl, Python and Ruby are   huge sprawls, all trying (like C++ and   Java) to be the best language for   every task. The only other mainstream   language out there that competes with   JavaScript for scripting arbitrary   host systems is Lua, famous for being   the scripting language of choice for   the game industry.       I agree with him on narrowing down to JavaScript and Lua.           Without the examples handy, all I can   do is say that using JavaScript/Rhino   (or Lua, once it became available on   the JVM) might have made my life   easier.       I personally prefer JavaScript on Java platform. The population of the user base is larger. As Yegge puts it, it is "the world's most misunderstood programming language," but the amount of resource available on the language is a plus.    Rhino    seems to a matured beast.  
  I'm currently looking for a library that will allow me to use Java objects and methods from Lua scripts.     My first idea was to use LuaJava too, but as I want this to work on Linux, Mac and Windows, I was put off by the fact that it uses a compiled lib in addition to the Java stuff. Only Windows pre-compiled binaries are available, and I'm not an expert on Mac, so I tried to find something in pure Java, and I found this:    http://sourceforge.net/projects/luaj       It seems to implement the C API described in the Lua doc, as well as the API from LuaJava.     The project seems really advanced, there are examples of Swing calls from Lua (!), and they worked on my Linux box. But oddly, mailing lists, forums and documentation are really sparse.     I'm gonna try this on Windows and Mac, too. Hope it works.     Kahlua has been mentioned, but it's only targeted at J2ME, that's why it lacks some parts of Lua. I think there's a project called Mochalua that has the same goals.     LuaJ, on the other hand, comes in two versions, one targeted at J2SE that implements everything (coroutines, too), and one targeted at J2ME, which lacks 2 or 3 libs I think (including the LuaJava stuff, which needs reflection).  
  You can use    RelProxy    - Java, it provides real and pure Java as a scripting language, including shell scripts made with Java, thanks to its compilation on the fly. Because the Java "script" is executed sharing the launcher ClassLoader, integration is straightforward.  
Dynamicaly populating a combobox with values from a Map based on what's selected in another combobox
  Ok, here's one for the Java/JavaScript gurus:     In my app, one of the controllers passes a TreeMap to it's JSP. This map has car manufacturer's names as keys and Lists of Car objects as values. These Car objects are simple beans containing the car's name, id, year of production etc. So, the map looks something like this (this is just an example, to clarify things a bit):     Key: Porsche     Value: List containing three Car objects(for example 911,Carrera,Boxter with their respectable years of production and ids)     Key: Fiat     Value: List containing two Car objects(for example, Punto and Uno)     etc...     Now, in my JSP i have two comboboxes. One should receive a list of car manufacturers(keys from the map - this part I know how to do), and the other one should    dynamicaly change    to display the names of the cars when the user selects a certain manufacturer from the first combobox. So, for example, user selects a "Porsche" in the first combobox, and the second immediately displays "911, Carrera, Boxter"...     After spending a couple of days trying to find out how to do this, I'm ready to admit defeat. I tried out a lot of different things but every time I hit a wall somewehere along the way. Can anybody suggest how I should approach this one? Yes, I'm a JavaScript newbie, if anybody was wondering...         EDIT: I've retagged this as a code-challenge. Kudos to anybody who solves this one without using any JavaScript framework (like JQuery).  
  Are you using Struts?     You will need some JavaScript trickery (or AJAX) to accomplish this.     What you'd need to do is, somewhere in your JavaScript code (leaving aside how you generate it for the minute):       This is basically a copy of your server-side data structure, i.e. a map keyed by manufacturer, each value having an array of car types.     Then, in your onchange event for the manufacturers, you'd need to get the array from the map defined above, and then create a list of options from that. (Check out devguru.com - it has a lot of helpful information about standard JavaScript objects).     Depending on how big your list of cars is, though, it might be best to go the AJAX route.     You'd need to create a new controller which looked up the list of cars types given a manufacturer, and then forward on to a JSP which returned    JSON    (it doesn't have to be JSON, but it works quite well for me).     Then, use a library such as    jQuery    to retrieve the list of cars in your onchange event for the list of manufacturers. (jQuery is an excellent JavaScript framework to know - it does make development with JavaScript much easier. The documentation is very good).     I hope some of that makes sense?  
Thanks for your answer, Phill. Actually, I'm using Spring. While your answer is a nice one, I'd still like to hear some other opinions :-)
  How about something like this, using prototype? First, your select box of categories:       Then, you output N different select boxes, one for each of the sub-categories:       Your changeCategory javascript function disables all selects with class categorySelect, and then enables just the one for your current categoryID.        When you hide/disable like this in prototype, it not only hides it on the page, but it will keep that FORM variable from posting. So even though you have N selects with the same FORM variable name (myFormVar), only the active one posts.  
If I understand this correctly, every time a car manufacturer is added or removed from the Map, I'd have to add or remove the appropriate select tag in the JSP. Since I get this Map from a vendor's web service, I have no way of knowing how many elements the Map might have.
And, I still don't know of a way to retrieve the names of the cars. The name of the car being a String in a Car object, that's stored in a List that's stored as a value in a Map. Whew... talk about complicated...
  Not that long ago I thought about something similar.     Using jQuery and the TexoTela add-on it wasn't all that difficult.     First, you have a data structure like the map mentioned above:       Your HTML should look comparable to:       Then, you fill the first combo with jQuery code like:       where manufacturerSelected is the callback registered on the onChange event       This should do the trick.      Please note that there may be syntax errors in there; I have edited my code to reflect your use case and had to strip quite a lot out.     If this helps I would appreciate a comment.   
First of all, thanks for your answer, extraneon. I'll use it if I don't find any other way. However, there are two issues here. The first one is that I'm not doing this for my own personal project, but as a part of a larger enterprise app for the company I'm currently employed at. Because of that,
I might not be allowed to use JQuery. They're a bit touchy when it comes to introducing new frameworks in the app. But, if I can't get it to work any other way, I'll just have to get my boss to convince the business guys that that's the only way to do it. However, the larger issue is getting the map
to work in JavaScript. I already mentioned that I'm getting it from a webservice, and my controller passes it to JSP, so I can't just hardcode it in JavaScript, I have to be able to map my map to a JavaScript object, so that I can manipulate it there. I'm still working on my own solution, though, so
if I get anywhere, I'll post the solution here. Once again, everybody, thanks for all the answers, and excuse me for the long comment.
  As an add-on on my previous post; You can put a script tag in your JSP where you iterate over your map. An example about iterating over maps can be found in    Maps in Struts   .     What you would like to achieve (if you don't care about form submission) is I think something like:       You still have some superfuous "," which you might wish to prevent, but I think this should do the trick.  
  I just love a challenge.     No jQuery, just plain javascript, tested on Safari.     I'd like to add the following remarks in advance:       It's faily long due to the error checking.       Two parts are generated; the first script node with the Map and the contents of the manufacterer SELECT      Works on My Machine (TM) (Safari/OS X)      There is no (css) styling applied. I have bad taste so it's no use anyway.       .    
Very nice, extraneon! However, the map is still hardcoded, so the challenge is still on... :-) To be honest, i managed to solve the problem, although the solution isn't pretty. The populating part is done pretty much the way you did it. I haven't posted it yet 'cause i have a lot to do but I'll post
it as soon as I can, probably the day after tomorrow. Although your solution isn't complete, I'm giving you a vote up, just for the effort you put into it :-) Hint: my solution involves using a scriptlet.
OK. I should have written a JSP and dynamically generate modelsPerManufacturer and the manufacturer SELECT. using nothing but the input Map. I'll update the answer tonight (it's now 7am here).
  Here is a working, cut-and-paste answer in jsp without any tag libraries or external dependencies whatsoever. The map with models is hardcoded but shouldn't pose any problems.     I separated this answer from my previous answer as the added JSP does not improve readability. And in 'real life' I would not burden my JSP with all the embedded logic but put it in a class somewhere. Or use tags.     All that "first" stuff is to prevent superfluos "," in the generated code. Using a foreach dosn't give you any knowledge about the amount of elements, so you check for last. You can also skip the first-element handling and strip the last "," afterwards by decreasing the builder length by 1.    
  Well anyway, as i said, i finally managed to do it by myself, so here's my answer...      I receive the map from my controller like this (I'm using Spring, don't know how this works with other frameworks):       These are my combos:                 I imported the following classes (some names have, of course, been changed):       And here's the code that does all the hard work:        
How do you restrict the size of a file being uploaded with JavaScript (or Java) without transferring the entire file?
  Is there a way to validate on the client side browser whether the size of a file being uploaded from a JSP page is over a set size limit without forcing the user to upload the entire file only to find out it was too large?     I would like to stay away from any proprietary controls or techniques like Flash or ActiveX if possible.     Thanks!  
  This isn't a perfect solution, but if you check the Content-Length HTTP header with    request.getHeader("Content-Length")    then you can choose to not transfer the entire file.     By way of explanation, an extremely large file will not be transferred all at once.  You'd have to actually open a stream representing that chunk of POST data and read from it for the entire thing to be transfered.     On the other hand, if you're worried about denial-of-service attacks, then you can't really trust the Content-Length header, because it can easily be forged.  In this case, you should set a limit and stream a transfer of this file, stopping as soon as you've exceeded that limit.  
  Suggest you reconsider the Flash decision and take a look at the YUI Uploader, here:       http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/uploader/       Among other things, the fileSelect event will tell you the size of the selected file in bytes immediately after it is selected but before it's uploaded, so you'll be able to restrict accordingly.  
  With JSP or PHP you won't be able to restrict the file size because your page won't get the request until the upload has already happened. At that point you can decide not to save the file but that might be too late.     There are some Java solutions out there, e.g.    MyUploader    or    Hermes   . Some even support multiple file uploads and resuming partial uploads, and some also give you the source code. You can also write your own, but it will need to be a signed applet in order to function because it needs to access the local filesystem. If you're using Apache as your webserver you'll need enough RAM in your machine to fit the whole file size in memory of all files being uploaded at a given time.  
How do I call Java code from JavaScript code in Wicket?
  If I can do this, how do I call Java code (methods for instance) from within JavaScript code, in Wicket.   
  Assuming you mean JavaScript running on the client - you cause an HTTP redirect to be made to the server, and have your servlet react to the request for the given URL.     This is known as    Ajax   , and there are a    number    of    libraries    that help you do it..  
    http://www.wicket-library.com/wicket-examples-6.0.x/index.html/    has plenty of examples to get you going.     Or have a Have a look at DWR       http://directwebremoting.org/       DWR allows Javascript in a browser to interact with Java on a server and helps you manipulate web pages with the results.      As Dorward mentioned this is done via AJAX  
Broken link http://wicketstuff.org/wicket13/ajax/
  erk. The correct answer would be ajax call backs. You can either manually code the js to hook into the wicket js, or you can setup the callbacks from wicket components in java. For example, from AjaxLazyLoadPanel:       This example shows how to add call back code to any Component in Wicket. After the OnDomReady event fires in your browser, when loading a page, Wicket will cause it's js enging, to call back into your code, using Ajax, to the 'respond' method shown above, at which point you can execute Java code on the server, and potentially add components to the ajax target to be re-rendered.     To do it manually, from js, you can hook into wicket's system by printing out getCallbackScript().toString() to a attribute on a wicket component, which you'll then be able to access from js. Calling this url from js manually with wicket's wicketAjaxGet from wicket-ajax.js.     Check out the mailing list for lot's of conversation on this topic:   http://www.nabble.com/Wicket-and-javascript-ts24336438.html#a24336438    
the last link  does not work
  Excerpt from    https://cwiki.apache.org/WICKET/calling-wicket-from-javascript.html       If you add any class that extends AbstractDefaultAjaxBehavior to your page, wicket-ajax.js will be added to the header ofyour web page. wicket-ajax.js provides you with two basic methods to call your component:       and       Here is an example:     JavaScript         $url$    is obtained from the method    abstractDefaultAjaxBehavior.getCallbackUrl()   . If you paste the String returned from that method into your browser, you'll invoke the respond method, the same applies for the javascript method.     You can optionally add arguments by appending these to the URL string. They take the form      foo=bar   .     you get the optional arguments in the Java response method like this:       or this:    
Worth mentioning that the API for extracting parameters has changed in Wicket 1.5.  Having called `RequestCycle.get().getRequest()` to obtain a `Request` object, you must now call `getQueryParameters()` (for GET params), `getPostParameters()` (for POST params), or `getRequestParameters()` (for all at once).  Each returns an `IRequestParameters` instance that you can query for parameters.  See [the API docs](http://wicket.apache.org/apidocs/1.5/).
Oh, and a gotcha: the URL returned by `getCallbackUrl()` can change during the component construction cycle.  It's often inaccurate if you try to use it in the constructor, and callbacks will fail as a result.  I've had success using it in an override of the component's `onBeforeRender()` instead.
Testing onbeforeunload events from Selenium
  I'm trying to write a Selenium test for a web page that uses an onbeforeunload event to prompt the user before leaving. Selenium doesn't seem to recognize the confirmation dialog that comes up, or to provide a way to hit OK or Cancel. Is there any way to do this? I'm using the Java Selenium driver, if that's relevant.  
  Warning : this gives an alternate solution     Watij --    http://watij.com/    -- can help here. Or if you're comfortable with ruby, watir can help --    http://wtr.rubyforge.org/install.html    
  You could write a user extension (or just some JavaScript in a storeEval etc) that tests that window.onbeforeunload is set, and then replaces it with null before continuing on from the page. Ugly, but ought to get you off the page.  
I didn't end up doing this (my requirements changed such that I was better off using a regular alert anyway), but this looks like it would do the trick, and is close to how Selenium handles testing for other alerts.
it was just a matter of adding `js_eval "window.onbeforeunload=null"` before an open for me.  (selenium-client in Ruby, but you should be able to easily translate to other languages)
  When I was confronted with limited control which I had over browser using Selenium, I turned to    MozLab    plugin which solved my problem if only for one browser platform.  
  I've just had to do this for an application of mine where the    onbeforeunload    handler brings up a prompt if a user leaves a page while a document is in an unsaved state. Python code:       The Java equivalent would be:       If the alert does not exist, the code above will fail with a    NoAlertPresentException    so there is no need for a separate test to check the existence before accepting the prompt.     I'm running Selenium 2.43.0 but I think this has been doable for a while now.     In cases where I don't want the prompt to come up at all because that's not what I'm testing, I run custom JavaScript in the browser to set    window.onbeforeunload    to    null    before leaving the page. I put this in the test teardown code.  
Calling JS from Applet: MalformedURLException: unknown protocol: javascript
  I read that you could call JavaScript code from a Java Applet by calling       However, when I do this i get the following error:       How do I work around this?  
    Works !!      Maybe the browser does not have javascript enabled.. just a guess  
  I get the same exception as you do because of that the URL class does not accept javascript: as a valid protocol.     There is a workaround though; supply an URLStreamHandler to the URL constructor.     Example:    
This opens a new tab in Firefox, but the page and location address are both empty. Nothing happens.. :/
Nevermind, apparently my Firefox 3.0.3 on Ubuntu is bugged :) It works perfectly on other computers. Thanks!
Spreadsheet-like control for a web application?
  A client of mine is looking to convert a critical 'application' based on multiple (very complex) spreadsheets into a web app.  As part of this they'd like some of the web pages they use to enter/model data to resemble a spreadsheet as much as possible.     I'd be interested to know if anyone has any experience/recommendations for embeddable controls that could do this better than standard html/javascript/ajax code - although suggestions for Javascript frameworks that could do this are welcome too.  I'm thinking mainly of ActiveX, Flex, Java or similar controls, commercial or open source are fine.     The coding languages to be used and platform is still open to debate, so ASP.NET against IE or PHP/Flex against Firefox, or some other combination is fine - this will be driven by the business requirement not the platform.       Functionality is of course the main driving force, but it's always useful to have nice looking eye candy so skinable and cool is a plus.  With reference to Javascript frameworks I''ve previously used Dojo and Mootools, but I'd prefer something with a bit more snap.  
I've been in a team that has built this using a .NET + jQuery setup - it's not fun, and makes your mind MELT. If you have the option of using a silverlight grid I'd take that option over javascript.
This question was already asked a couple of times. Check this out: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/58289/excel-like-server-side-control-for-aspnet#58295 but there are more.
  I'd say this comes down to data grids.     For Javascript frameworks: Jquery has 'plugins' like    this   . Serverside: Telerik has asp.net controls like    this   .     It really comes down to what platform mix you want to use.     Also, why do you want to bind an asp.net page to IE instead of Firefox?     For a web application, my recommendation would be a mix of asp.net mvc and jquery. JQuery is in my view the best and most stable JavaScript framework out there. The problem is that asp.net mvc is still in ctp phase and it's probably not 'supported' and 'stable' enough in some eyes. I already finished a mid-scale commercial web app based on the mixture and was pleased with it.  
  I would consider a solution based on google docs/apps or similar and background web services.  
  Check out    SpreadsheetGear   , as is a .Net component that will allow you to read / write Excel files and execute macros.  You can preserve the logic of the spreadsheets and use them to power you web site.     For a front end you may want to check out Telerik as people have created a    spreadsheet like interface with the Telerik grid control   .  
  Check out ZK Spreadsheet its cool.  
  It sounds like EASA might meet your needs. It's a codeless app development tool in use at companies like Zurich, GE, HP. You may like to have a look at    http://www.easasoftware.com/spreadsheets   . Hope this helps.  
  Here you can download    GelSheet    an opensource web based spreadsheet.  It is written on PHP/MySql/Javascript You can contact the developers at sourceforege project page for any customizations It's the best solution I found and I'm using it as a part of a personal project.   
Scripting in Java
  Me and some friends are writing a MORPG in Java, and we would like to use a scripting language to, eg. to create quests.     We have non experience with scripting in Java. We have used Python, but we are very inexperienced with it. One of us also have used Javascript.      What scripting language should we use? What scripting language should we not use?   
  How about Jython?       http://www.jython.org/Project/    
  I agree with Viktor's Jython suggestion. Other than that and JavaScript (which you've mentioned, and is built into Java 6+ via the    javax.script    package),    Groovy    and    JRuby    are also worth looking at too.     By the way, you should look at    Wyvern   , also an MMORPG written in Java and using Jython for scripting.    Steve Yegge   , its author, has much to say about it from time to time. :-)  
  Java supports a variety of (scripting) languages, some are listed in Wikipedia    here    and    here   . You probably should choose language with powerful DSL and metaprogramming capabilities, such as    Clojure   .     But if you need something simpler, JavaScript might be a viable alternative.  
  See    Java: Scripting language (macro) to embed into a Java desktop application    
  You have quite a few options:       Groovy -    http://groovy.codehaus.org/       Jython -    http://www.jython.org/Project/       JRuby -    http://jruby.codehaus.org/         Possibly even BeanShell (   http://www.beanshell.org/   )     I'm a fan of Python myself so I'd recommend Jython, but they're probably all reasonable options.   
  what about creating your own specialized scripting language? If your app is written with java, you can use ANTLR (   http://www.antlr.org/   ) to create your language parsing code.      The reason I say this is because a general purpose scripting language may provide too much power (because the script it to be used for quests only i assume).      But if making your own language is too hard then any of the above suggestions works - you just have to figure out how to bind the game's runtime into the script. I also suggest Lua (   http://www.lua.org/   ) as another choice that lots of games use.  
  I am a big fan of Python/Jython due to the clean syntax - which may suit you if you have some python experience.      Otherwise Groovy which is based on Java syntax and may be an easier learning curve if most of your developers are Java guys. It also has the advantage of closer ties with the Java language and libraries.      Beanshell is good if you have simple scripting in mind - it doesn't support classes. However I don't think it has had any support over the last few years (the JSR seemed to kill it off...) so is perhaps a bad choice if support is important to you.  
  I would have to recommend Javascript for this purpose. Mozilla Rhino    http://www.mozilla.org/rhino/    is an excellent implementation that would fit your needs perfectly.     I recommend Javascript over Jython or JRuby because of familiarity. Trivial Javascript follows a very familiar syntax that anybody can use. However if someone wants to do something more intense, Javascript is a very powerful functional programming language.     I regularly use Groovy and Ruby professionally and believe that their purpose is best for writing parts of applications with particularly complex logic where Java is cumbersome to write. Javascript is a much better choice as an embedded, general scripting language to use in a game. I haven't used Python, but it's syntactically similar to Ruby and I would believe it's purpose would also be similar.  
  I'm responsible for a fairly large hybrid Java/Jython system.   We use java for core API development, then wire Java objects together using Jython.   This is in a scientific computing environment where we need to be able to put together ad-hoc data analysis scripts quickly.     If I were starting this system from scratch today, I would    not    choose Jython as the scripting language.   I like Python fine, but I frequently encounter awkward mismatches between the Python type system and the Java type system.   For example, if you just want a hashtable, should you use a Python dictionary or a Java HashMap?   The decision might be different depending on whether you are just using the data structure locally in Python code or passing it across the Java boundary.   Jython does a certain amount of type coercion for you, but it's not perfect.  It's annoying to even have to think about issues like this when the purpose of using a scripting language in the first place is to enhance your productivity.      I assume JavaScript or JRuby would have similar issues.  Today I would choose a scripting language that is specifically targeted to the JVM and leverages the Java type system.   The obvious candidates are Groovy and Beanshell; Groovy seems to have been picking up momentum lately so I'd look most closely at it.  
If you were to start from scratch in 2012 would you approach the "glue components together" differently?
  Short version     Don t use a scripting language! Instead focus on configurability (which is something that a non-programmer can do well).     Longer version     One oft-used argument in favour of    having    a scripting language is that it allows for lesser programmers to more trivial tasks. Don't belive this, it will    not save    you any time, since trivial tasks are already accomplished by real programmers in    no time   . Aim for configurability instead of scripting, and you will have a much lower risk of bleeding over complex algorithms and concepts into the incapable hands of game designers. :)     Lack of hotswapping (edit-and-continue) would have been a reason to implement a scripting language in an MMOG (you don t want to reload the whole game for a minor code change), but using Java, with built-in hotswap, you really have no reason for adding a scripting language on top.     I have spent years pondering these questions; in the day I implemented a complete scripting language, IDE, VM, debugger, etc for an MMOG myself. Since, I have grown wiser.     If you still choose to go down the infinitely crappy path of no return, keep the following in mind.       Pick a mature language which has been around for a while.     Auto testing, debugging and editing will suck bigtime until you make your own tools/plugins/start hacking around in the VM.       To date, I have never seen a DSL that improved the situation (getting a more maintainable product). Myself, I integrated Python into my indie game engine, but eventually came to my senses and ripped it out. "Stackless Python" is just a way of saying "unmaintainable but fast". Please, anyone correct me if I'm wrong?  
There is one good reason for including a scripting language, namely where you need to be able to add new functionality (which hence cannot be configured) without redeployment.
But Java has support for (re-)loading classes, and using some thought and reflection will take you a long way. If necessary.
You still need to compile the revised Java classes.
Compiling should an be infinitesimal issue compared to incorporating a scripting language, in all the ways I can think of.
  LuaJ seems to be a nice way to embed Lua into Java:       http://sourceforge.net/projects/luaj/    
Wicket + Javascript
  I'm wrapping up a Javascript widget in a Wicket component.  I want to let the JS side talk to the component.  What I've got so far:     Component in question goes like       in constructor     and then, later on, puts something like       into the JS.     where GridAjaxBehavior extends AbstractDefaultAjaxBehavior.  I want GridAjaxBehavior to spit back some XML when the JS calls it.  Am I doing this the right way?  What should GridAjaxBehaviour do to spit back the XML?     Thanks  
FYI, there's an error in your javascript emit. You're missing the right hand paren and semicolon, but you're also missing quotes around the supplied string.  ... new talker(\"" + this.talker.getCallbackURL() + "\");"; or something like that.
PSA: Wicket ~= a Java Framework. http://wicket.apache.org/introduction.html
please show a link to GridAjaxBehavior - i know wicket a bit, but GridAjaxBehavior is new to me. is this a custom developed behavior
  I don't really know what Wicket is or what it does, but there is a minor bug in your code (as it appears).     This:       "var MyGridTalker = new talker(" + this.talker.getCallbackUrl();       You seem to be missing your end parens:       "var MyGridTalker = new talker(" + this.talker.getCallbackUrl() + ")";       Anyway, not a big deal, but didn't know if it was intentional.  
  Spit back some XML for what? Presumably to update the model or the view, yes?     The strength of Wicket is that you don't have to worry about the rendered HTML. In Model-View-Controller terms, you set up the Controller to correctly modify the Model, and  Wicket takes care of the View.     The separation is not    entirely    clear: in fact you can show/hide view components, or change then, and that can be seen as altering the View.     But what you generally don't have to do is directly manage the browser or javascript. Wicket takes care of that, if you take care of making your changes in the Java code.     In Wicket, the Ajax will call a method on your AjaxBehavior with an AjaxRequestTarget target.     In that method (or in methods called from it), you do whatever you need to do, updating models or views, and then you add to the target any view component that that has changed. Wicket takes care of updating the browser.             Here's an example. It's taken from some code I did, but    heavily altered    just to make explication clearer. The idea is simple: "chained" dropdown choices, where the options in the child change when the select option in the parent changes, as in the series of [State] [County] [District].      (In the actual class, the Model change is passed to the child, which decides for itself if it has changed, and adds itself to the target if it has, then passes the target to its child. I've removed most of that to make a clearer example.)     Here's the ctor, which just adds to itself an anonymous subclass of an AjaxBehavior:       We could also have hidden or un-hidden components, or added behaviors like CSS styles, or even swapped one Panel for another. As long as for each changed component we: 1) called setOutputMarkupId(true); so that the javascript can find it, and 2) added it to the AjaxRequestTarget     Note that different types (subclases) of Ajax Behavior have different callback functions, so be sure you're overriding the right one (add an @Override annotation so the compiler can complain if you got the name wrong).     But again, the basic wicket idea is that instead of sending raw data for the client to parse and act on, you update your model and view, and tell Wicket to re-render what you've changed, by adding the chnaged components to the target.     The only reason I can think of to send straight XML would to be to feed it to non-Wicket javascript. Let me know if that's your aim, and I completely missed the point. ;)   
Java method never called while using JSON RPC in Struts2
  I'm trying to get some code working that a previous developer has written. Yep, he now left the company. :-(     I have a JSON RPC call being made from the JS code. The JS all runs fine and the callback method gets an object back (not an error object).     But the method on the Java class never gets hit. The smd method does get hit though.               I'm stumped as to why, or what I'm missing. I've read    JSON plugin page    over and over.     I think I just need another set of eyes.     Note: no errors in the Tomcat console, no JS errors.     Anyone got any clues? Cheers  Jeff Porter  
  I'm guessing that you need to update the    smd()    method to actually call    updateRowValueForField()    rather than simply return immediately. Looks like the previous developer never actually hooked up the methods.  
  You forgot to include the javascript code. From the example:       Are you sure you call service.updateRowValueForField(key, value, fieldname) and not something different?      Further, your method returns a void (e.g. doesn't return anything). What did you expect to get?  
  New version fixes my problems.       Google JSON plugin    
I know its old post...but i am not able to get this work either...i am on 2.2.3 and in javascript when i say service.doSomething...it says doSomething not defined...sounds logical as there is no method saying doSomething in Json service. That example is not correct..something is missing there...
Javascript classes and DWR
  I've been playing with DWR and converters for a while and I really wanted to map my Java classes to JavaScript classes. Using DWR converters, I have the option to point out what is the name of my JS constructor given a Java class. So far so good... The problem arises when my JS constructor is within a JS package-like name (just like YUI's package system, eg    my.beautiful.package.MyClass   ). DWR's current implementation doesn't allow me to use this kind of construct, giving me a    SyntaxError    when I try to use it. Is there an elegant way arround this limitation?  
I don't have a workaround, but for your information there is an opened issue about this : http://bugs.directwebremoting.org/bugs/browse/DWR-103 If I am wrong and it is not the same problem as what you described, let me know and I will delete this comment.
Thats right, I wonder if they will fix it only for version 3. Here we use version 2 yet.
  As far as I know the this isn't possible directly. I have in my current work project experimented with enhancing each returned object on the client side with methods from a Javascript class, which gets the result that I think you are interested in.       I'll have to check at work on monday (now is sunday) that augmentProto is correct one to use, but I think it is. There may even be a better hook into DWR that'll allow you to do this on the fly automagically.  
One thing that I did, I "globalized" all needed constructors used by DWR, (using the notation as follows *my_beautiful_package_MyClass*) although it works, its not that elegant =/
Has anyone used or written an Ant task to compile (Rhino) JavaScript to Java bytecode?
  I'd like to use the    Rhino JavaScript    compiler to compile some JavaScript to .class bytecode files for use in a project. It seems like this should already exist, since there are groovyc, netrexxc, and jythonc tasks for Groovy, NetREXX(!) and Jython, respectively. Has anyone used or written such an Ant task, or can anyone provide some tips on how to write one?     Ideally it would have some way to resolve dependencies among JavaScript or Java classes.  
  Why not simply use java task?       Any objections?  
Hmm, the main concern is handling dependencies among Java and JavaScript classes. Still, this might be enough to work for now -- thanks.
  Here is a sample build.xml I use for my rhino applications. If you have lots of javascript files you just need to keep adding more  tags     ~:ant compile jar run       ~             
  I'm using    RequireJS    in my project, which includes a script that traces out dependencies between modules, and combines them into a single JavaScript file. Optionally, it can also minify the combined js file with the Google Closure compiler. Once it's in this form, where all dependencies are included in a single js file, the file can be easily compiled using jsc.      Here's a segment of my ant script which I use to create the single combined js file, compile it to a class file, and then create an executable JAR:       The complete build script can be found    here   .  
What's the difference between JavaScript and Java?
  What's the difference between JavaScript and Java?  
  Everything.  They're unrelated languages.  
Everything. Snap!
*Punches in the arm*. According to wikipedia, I am required to do so after you jinxed me and before I can speak again. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jinx
You misread that - I get to punch you now.  And get me my Coke.
  Everything.     JavaScript was named this way by Netscape to confuse the unwary into thinking it had something to do with Java, the buzzword of the day, and it succeeded.     The two languages are entirely distinct.  
Javascript was originally called Livescript, and the world would probably be a better place today if they hadn't renamed it!
I doubt it was to cause confusion - what's the benefit to the company of that? I suspect the _intent_ was to ride on the success of Java, although the _effect_ was what you stated.
"ride the success of java" by calling something unrelated with a similar name? That sounds very much like "causing confusion for marketing purposes" to me.
Sun tried this naming trick again with the "Sun Java Desktop", which was essentially a branded version of Gnome and had nothing to do with Java.
@Pax - Put another way, it confused the unwary into thinking it had something to do with Java, the buzzword of the day.
Yeah, and it worked. @Greg Hewgill, the world might be a better place, but Javascript probably wouldn't be where it is today.
@Just Some Guy - Well said. I improved my answer by adding some of your wit.
The reason they changed the name was to in some way pacify Sun who at that point were involved with Netscape
  Java and Javascript are similar like Car and Carpet are similar.  
Awesome answer. I need to remember it!
from ddaa import wit # I wish I had come up with that one!
That is the best answer ever. If it is original (i.e. you hadn't heard it from somewhere else) you are a genius. I am going to start quoting this...
Unfortunately, I can't claim originality. I don't recall where I first heard it, however.
Damn, this answer earned you 690 rep atleast. It is a great answer still.
Great answer. Simple and lets you get the idea.
He didn't.  200 max per day.
i don't think it's a flaw. he deserved his points. this is a short answer, and all he needs to know.
lol, very nice comparison.
I would vote this up twice if I could. Great analogy!
+1 (just to help Tim!)
I would have said car and bus.
@Ian Quigley: Ah, that must have been where I saw it! Thanks.
Greg Hewgil, you're my new hero man!
I prefer the version about ham and hamster.
This is a bad answer. Javascript and Java are both languages for writing code, but they are used in different contexts. Car and Carpet are nothing at all like each other. Javascript and Java are easy to confuse for a beginner
  Here are some differences between the two languages:       Java is a statically typed language; JavaScript is dynamic.     Java is class-based; JavaScript is prototype-based.     Java constructors are special functions that can only be called at object creation; JavaScript "constructors" are just standard functions.     Java requires all non-block statements to end with a semicolon; JavaScript inserts semicolons at the ends of certain lines.     Java uses block-based scoping; JavaScript uses function-based scoping.     Java has an implicit    this    scope for non-static methods, and implicit class scope; JavaScript has implicit global scope.       Here are some features that I think are particular strengths of JavaScript:       JavaScript supports closures; Java can simulate sort-of "closures" using anonymous classes. (Real closures may be supported in a future version of Java.)     All JavaScript functions are variadic; Java functions are only variadic if explicitly marked.     JavaScript prototypes can be redefined at runtime, and has immediate effect for all referring objects. Java classes cannot be redefined in a way that affects any existing object instances.     JavaScript allows methods in an object to be redefined independently of its prototype (think eigenclasses in Ruby, but on steroids); methods in a Java object are tied to its class, and cannot be redefined at runtime.    
2 years late, but thank you so much for this thoughtful explanation.  It's way more useful and informative than the selected answer, and deserves far more votes IMO
I upvote both in such cases.  We need the right answer, but holy shmoly, geeks like us we really need more of this humor
You  might also here strongly-typed and loosely-typed instead of statically-typed and dynamically-typed.
  One is essentially a toy, designed for writing small pieces of code, and traditionally used and abused by inexperienced programmers.     The other is a scripting language for web browsers.  
Overtly trollish, but somewhat funny.
Gave me a chuckle. Enough for +1
If we could do categorical votes, I'd vote +1 funny, but otherwise, meh.
I was about to berate you for dissing Javascript when it had come so far in the last few years.  Then I rid the second paragraph and L'dOL. But, hang on a mo, Java is my main income earner... :-)
I downvoted this, then read it properly, then upvoted it.
Poetry, Shog.  Sheer poetry.
Perfect - +1 for humor, as someone else said, but -1 for actually answering the question.
downvoted for dissing Javascript, then noticing you were talking about JAVA and upvoted (and lol'ed alot).
-1 factually incorrect and not that funny.
It's sad that I can only upvote once.  This is going on my Facebook profile somewhere...
ROFL...  That was funny.
But which language goes with which description(wasn't java meant to be used as a well not quite scripting but everything else for the net during some point in the 90s-by sun and netscape)? Also who writes small pieces of code in java?
@Roman well of course, the proper Java way is to write at least 20 different classes using intricate inheritance and other cool OOP features to complete a FizzBuzz :)
Jeeez. I almost downvoted the answer, when I started to read the first sentence :D
twitted right after finishing laughing...
Oh my gosh... hilarious! +1
Actually, javascript isn't just for browsers. It's a complete scripting language often used for many applications that requires scripts. And Java isn't just for inexperienced or idiots. It can acomplish many things within no time.
Brilliant.  A heartfelt +1
  They are independent languages with unrelated lineages. Brendan Eich created Javascript originally at Netscape. It was initially called Mocha. The choice of Javascript as a name was a nod, if you will, to the then ascendant Java programming language, developed at Sun by Patrick Naughton, James Gosling, et. al.  
  JavaScript is an object-oriented    scripting    language that allows you to create dynamic HTML pages, allowing you to process input data and maintain data, usually within the browser.     Java is a programming language, core set of libraries, and virtual machine platform that allows you to create compiled programs that run on nearly every platform, without distribution of source code in its raw form or recompilation.     While the two have similar names, they are really two completely different programming languages/models/platforms, and are used to solve completely different sets of problems.     Also, this is directly from the Wikipedia    Javascript article   :          A common misconception is that JavaScript is similar or closely related to Java; this is not so. Both have a C-like syntax, are object-oriented, are typically sandboxed and are widely used in client-side Web applications, but the similarities end there. Java has static typing; JavaScript's typing is dynamic (meaning a variable can hold an object of any type and cannot be restricted). Java is loaded from compiled bytecode; JavaScript is loaded as human-readable code. C is their last common ancestor language.    
Javascript isn't just for HTML pages, Java6 now includes it, BIRT uses it for report scripting - I'm sure that there are other non-HTML uses beyond these two.
You're right.  With the development of Rhino, and some of the other developments you mentioned, Javascript has come pretty far out of the browser sandbox.
Scripting is simply one particular kind of programming... instead you should say perhaps that Java is a compiled programming language and javascript is a scripting or interpreted programming language.
  Take a look at the    Wikipedia link              JavaScript, despite the name, is essentially unrelated to the Java programming language, although both have the common C syntax, and JavaScript copies many Java names and naming conventions. The language was originally named "LiveScript" but was renamed in a co-marketing deal between Netscape and Sun, in exchange for Netscape bundling Sun's Java runtime with their then-dominant browser. The key design principles within JavaScript are inherited from the Self and Scheme programming languages.    
  They have nothing to do with each other.     Java is statically typed, compiles, runs on its own VM.     Javascript is dynamically typed, interpreted, and runs in a browser. It also has first-class functions and anonymous functions, which Java does not. It has direct access to web-page elements, which makes it useful for doing client-side processing.     They are also somewhat similar in syntax, but that's about it.  
  Like everybody's saying, they're pretty much entirely different.     However, if you need a    scripting    language for your    Java    application, Javascript is actually a really good choice.  There are ways to get Javascript running in the JVM and you can access and manipulate Java classes pretty seamlessly once you do.   
  In addittion to being entirely different languages, in my experience:       Java looks nice at first, later it gets annoying.     JavaScript looks awful and hopeless at first, then gradually you really start to like it.       (But this may just have more to do with my preference of functional programming over OO programming... ;)  
Same experience here.
  Practically every PC in the world sells with at least one JavaScript interpreter installed on it.     Most (but not "practically all") PCs have a Java VM installed.  
    A Re-Introduction to Javascript    by the Mozilla team (they make Firefox) should explain it.  
It's like they didn't bother to edit it even a little.
        Java is to JavaScript as ham is to hamster    
Where do you think ham comes from?  ;)
It comes from a big hamster; it's so big that you could confuse it with a pig. `;)`
  Don't be confused with name..   Java was created at Sun Microsystems (now Oracle).   But, JavaScript was created at Netscape (now Mozilla) in the early days of the Web, and technically,  Java-Script  is a trademark licensed from Sun Microsystems used to describe Netscape s implementation of the language. Netscape submitted the language for standardization to ECMA (European Computer Manufacturer s Association) and because of trademark issues, the standardized version of the language was stuck with the awkward name  ECMAScript.  For the same trademark reasons, Microsoft s version of the language is formally known as  JScript.  In practice, just about everyone calls the language JavaScript. The real name is  ECMAScript .         Both are fully different languages!!!    
Java -> Apache Commons StringEscapeUtils -> escapeJavaScript
  For a very simple ajax name lookup, I'm sending an id from the client webpage to the server (Tomcat 5.5, Java 5), looking it up in a database and returning a string, which is assigned to a javascript variable back in the client (and then displayed).     The javascript code that receives the value is pretty standard:       To return the string, I originally had this in the server:       Which worked perfectly, if unsafe. Later, I replaced it with:       But while safer, the resulting string can't be properly displayed if it contains special chars like " ".     For instance, using:       sends:       to the client.     The question: is there a simple way to parse the resulting string in Javascript or is there an alternate escape function I can use in java that would prevent this issue?  
  The following works in every browser I've tried:       Perhaps your string is being escaped twice by mistake.  
Yes, I think in this particular case the escape was unnecessary (see my other comment below)
  Actually, now that I read it over, I think I actually    don't    need to escape the string I'm sending back at all... That is, StringEscapeUtils.escapeJavaScript would be useful if the resulting value was printed in the page, like:       Or am I missing something and there would still be a valid reason to do the escape in the original case? (when it is returned as a series of bytes back to an ajax onreadystatechange handler and assigned to a js variable)  
How to prevent a user from seeing previous users' info by hitting the "Back" button
  I am developing a java web app using servlet, in order to prevent user from hitting the back button to see previous users' info, I have the following code :       Besides I also have the following code in the file : web/WEB-INF/web.xml       And the ResponseHeaderFilter.java looks like this :       So far it's still not working correctly. The back button will bring up a warning window saying the data has expired, it asks if the user wants to repost it. If you choose yes, it will still display the previous pages info. What am I doing wrong? What's the fix ?     Frank       Yes, I am developing a web app for a PC in public place, if user B hits the back button he might see user A's private info.     I was trying to use session id with servlet, but how to do it, any sample code ?     I also tried the following :       It works for IE but but Firefox.  
  Breaking the back button is a cardinal sin of web development.     but you could try a bit of java script in the onload that refreshed the details according to the currently logged in session.  
Breaking the back button is only relevant within a single session.  For example, I can't open a new browser window and hit the "back" button to go to the last website I visited.
  I'm not sure if I understand your problem exactly. Are you concerned about Person A logging off, Person B logs in from the same PC and browser instance, and then you want to prevent Person B from seeing whatever A was viewing?     If so, it should be sufficient to check the credentials of the user on every page load. Check that the current user is authorized to view the data being requested.  
  How will hitting the back button cause the user to see    another    user's data? What is your use case? Is it designed for a public terminal, where each user submits data and then leaves? In this case, associate each input with a unique session id. Keep track of valid session ids in your server. Once the input is submitted, remove that session id from the valid ids. If it comes up again, then don't display the information.  
I agree - it sounds like he's trying to solve a problem that shouldn't exist... running the session as a singleton or something?
  Your problem is that you're trying to keep the client from seeing what's on his or her own computer. You can't keep them from looking at their browser cache. You can't keep them from disabling JavaScript (and thus your scripting code). You can't keep them from using a browser that doesn't observe that "repost" convention that you mention.     This is not a problem that can be solved with JavaScript or a server-side solution. That part of why "breaking the back button" is frowned upon: it doesn't actually solve anything.  
Actually, you can turn caching off. Most browsers respect this, but it's not guaranteed.
As I mentioned in my post here, you can turn off caching but history may be treated differently by different user agents. The HTTP specification makes a distinction between the two but doesn't really define the concept of history as well as it defines caching.
  I had a similar problem in .Net. I added the following javascript to my logout page:     document.execCommand("ClearAuthenticationCache","false");     now if you press the back button you need to authenticate again.  
Have you considered that a malicious user could simply turn off Javascript?
  It sounds like your real problem is that the re-post works. That would probably be because you:       are trusting credentials from the browser rather than the current session, or      are not checking that the current session is allowed access the data represented by a key/identifier value sent from the browser       I recommend that after a user has logged in you never trust a user name submitted by the browser. Ideally use the security services of a framework like    Spring Security    but in their absence you can rely on    HttpServletRequest.getUserPrincipal()   .      To make sure the current session is allowed access the data you could use an Access Control List mechanism provided by a framework such as Spring Security or include a    WHERE OWNER=?    clause in your database queries.  
  If you're worried about someone seeing what was in a form in a previous page you could use a hidden form for the "real" post and use one that's just for display for the user. When the user submits the display form, you copy all of the fields to the hidden form, clear the display form, then submit the hidden one.     I agree with everyone else - fiddling with the back button this is a bad way to handle protecting information.  
  I'm not 100% sure this is a fix to your issue, as I don't fully understand how you would get another user's data using back. However, I know that for the web apps I develop I try to exclusively use    Redirect After Post    to avoid back button and refresh duplicate form submissions.  
  Jeff Atwood described a way to prevent CSRF and XSRF attacks    here   .     You could use this technique to solve your "   users seeing what they should not see   " problem.  
  I'm not sure I understand your problem correctly, but it sounds like you are allowing rePOSTs.     One approach to prevent resubmission is to use tokens. Put a random token in the form and session. On submission check that the submitted token matches the token in the session        if it does, replace the token in the session with a fresh one and process the request     otherwise stop processing the request).    
  All of the different browsers have different behaviors and quirks when it comes to how history relates to the cache and the various headers available to control it. Firefox 3 works differently from Firefox 2, re-displaying potentially sensitive data when a user clicks the back button in spite of using caching directives to prevent it. The best solution is to use a session cookie that is not persisted and inform the user of the need to close the browser window after logging out. Especially if they are at a public terminal. Painful, I know, but current browser offerings and the HTTP specification do not provide any mechanisms for dealing with browser history. History may be treated differently than caching by a user agent according to the HTTP specification. See    13.13 History Lists    as defined in RFC 2616 Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1 for the problem and rationale.  
  I think this is as much a user interface challenge as a coding problem. On top of whatever anti-caching techniques you employ, you need to make it clear to the user that they must hit a big, obvious "Logout" button (or equivalent) when they are done.   
  if this might help. This works for ASP, use an equivalent solution for other languages.       % response.buffer = true%>   % Response.CacheControl = "no-cache" %>   % Response.AddHeader "Pragma", "no-cache" %>   % Response.Expires = -1 %>  
Reading an email string from a cookie in java
  My application needs to store the users email address in a cookie so that I can pre-populate a login form    (username == email address)   . I set the cookie value in JavaScript. If I read it from JavaScript, I get    foo@bar.com   . If I look at it in the cookie viewer in Firefox I get    foo@bar.com   .     When I try to read it on the server-side in Java however, I only get    foo   .      Do I need to do some sort of encoding/decoding here? If so, how do I do it in a way that can be decoded by both JavaScript and Java?      Thanks in advance! -Michael  
  You need to escape the value part of your cookie.    
  From the    javax.servlet.http.Cookie    doco for setValue(String):          Assigns a new value to a cookie after   the cookie is created. If you use a   binary value, you may want to use   BASE64 encoding.           With Version 0   cookies, values should not contain   white space, brackets, parentheses,   equals signs, commas, double quotes,   slashes, question marks,      at signs     ,   colons, and semicolons. Empty values   may not behave the same way on all   browsers.       I'm guessing you need to BASE64 encode it on the way in (via JavaScript) and on the way out (via Java)  
Please see post below about equals sign... (what's with the 300 char limit on comments?)
  I have found two solutions to this. Here is the first one.     Add back in padding to Base64 encoded strings. Inspiration for this came from    http://fi.am/entry/urlsafe-base64-encodingdecoding-in-two-lines/       In this solution, the JavaScript stays the same (base64 encode everything) and the server side looks like:       On the JavaScript side, you just need to make sure you base64 encode the values:    
  The second solution is just to URLEncode the Base64 encoded string. I'm using commons codec to do the encoding here. Java Code:       But now I have to decode it on the JavaScript side as well... Encode:        Decode:    
AJAX/jsp/HTML vs Applets
  Which approach is better?        Having jsp/HTML based web application which allows you to traverse web pages in the browser.     An applet based web application which opens up a Swing applet screen?    
  That depends on your criteria.  Personally, I prefer HTML based web applications because they are easier for search engines to index, easier to bookmark links into, and better supported across multiple browsers.     An applet will let you do fancy stuff within the browser, without needing to go back to the server as much (although you can get most of the way there with JavaScript/DOM these days).  
  Applet startup times are pretty slow; there are also reports that Sun is stepping away from swing in favor of JavaFX. While the libraries will probably never leave java, they will tend to look pretty old and dated- I think that most swing apps tend to look pretty awful.     I'd definately recommend HTML / Ajax- they will work in more places and on more browsers.  
  The correct answer is "insufficient information", and "better" lacks criteria. However, the fact that you are asking the question the way you do makes me believe that #1 is probably "better" for you. While #2 provides much more programmed control, there are many issues. If you need the control, then #2, but check browser compatibility, load time, development time, Java experience. If you need control mostly for graphics, consider Flash.  
  I've been doing web applications for 5 years now, and I'm completely sick and tired of HTML / JavaScript.  The development of tools has been lackluster at best, and the fragmentation of implementations has only continued to grow.     At the same time, Flash applets have profusely multiplied. More and more people are moving to ActionScript and Flash.  Silverlight, the Microsoft Applet, has comeout with mild fan-fare.  The next Java release has promised faster startup times to support applet loading.     I've also noticed that development on HTML / Javascript / (insert serverside implementation here) is anywhere from 2-4 times slower than in a single language / single ide environment.  AJAX has yet to save the planet, and has only created a huge number of implementations to choose between, and then in the end feel like you chose the wrong one.     My vote is strongly in the Applet Corner.  
  As many others have said, your question doesn't have enough information to provide an answer.     As a user however, I    much    prefer html/javascript/ajax sites over applets or flash.     One suggestion for you is to check out    Google Web Toolkit   .  It lets you write in Java and compile to javascript.  A pretty nifty tool actually.  
This answer has become increasingly relevant in the past 6 months.  Google Web Toolkit has become a strong contender.
  HTML/JavaScript is the bane of every webapp developer, but they get the job done, in most cases. Webapps are nearly free of limitations, and can mimic a great deal of what you can easily achieve with a simple Swing applet. Of course, applets are also confined to their little    sandbox    within the browser's memory space, and this can hinder usability.     Having said all this, there are functions that a webapp simply won't be able to do as efficiently or successfully as an applet, mostly dealing with non-conventional graphic elements on the screen.     Bottom line, let your requirements (and the limitations of each option) lead you to the right answer for you.     Yuval =8-)  
  Java applets ARE solid, stable, supported technology, even at the end of the year 2008. There are many things that could be better accomplished by using applets instead of AJAX or Flash/Flex - for instance, displaying MANY interactive objects or other interactive graphics-intensive tasks. Why not flash or flex? Well, it depends, Java (and inherently Java Applets) has many great libraries that could be reused - for example, in context of graphics,    Apache Batik    comes into mind first.     I think that applets are so loathed technology mainly because of bad deployment. Read    this article    (including the other parts) for explanation if interested.     Of course, applets have well-known downsides. The most obvious one - it is not installed on an average Windows-based computer by default. Firstly, that is not convenient for your visitor to install JRE with browser plugin and, moreover, your service will not be accessible by user that has a (in Windows terms) "limited" account.     But, at last answering your question: it depends on your needs. Ask yourself whether you CAN build needed service using AJAX, if not, choose between Silverlight, Flash/Flex or, yes, Applets.  
  Having worked with applications in the enterprise, which deal with large amount of data, I can definitely not vouch for JavaScript. Browser is simply too slow when dealing with large data sets. What is the perfect technology I do not know. I am trying my hands on Java FX and see how it goes.  
Does a Javascriptable FTP Upload Java/Flash Applet exist?
  To be able to upload large files from a HTML page to a FTP server, I am looking for a Java/Flash FTP upload applet.     I really like the way    dhtmlxVault    works, but I need it to upload to a FTP server instead of a HTTP file upload.     It would be really nice if the applet has no GUI of it's own, but instead is fully scriptable using Javascript so I can use HTML/CSS for it's appearance.     I hopefully looked into    Yahoo!'s YUI Uploader    since it requires Flash, but the documentation only mentions HTTP upload and no FTP upload.  
What is the reason behind requiring FTP and not HTTP upload? Would the following process not work: 1. Upload via HTTP to holding location (stores file+meta data) 2. Run server-side process to FTP file to correct location
I did consider exactly the solution you suggested. But, the main reason for needing FTP is the size of the files in question which can be hundreds of megabytes. This exceeds largely the maximum allowed post size in PHP (which I want to use server side), and available webspace will also be limited.
I was documenting an application when I used the word 'Javascriptable'. Upon realising what I had written, I then began Googling to see if it was even a word - or at least a commonly used non-word. Thus leading me here. Is Javascriptable a word?!
Yes, 'Javascriptable' is a word, and I invented it :P
  I tried the    ZUpload    Java applet.     Pro's:       The user interface works as easy as I could hope it to work.     It is a Java applet with it's own GUI, but I was able to implement some Javascript callbacks in it to update progress information in HTML. I would be able to minimize the GUI further.       Con's:       When an upload failes (when the FTP server tells it it is to busy, please retry in a moment) it thinks the upload succeeded and goes on with the next file. I tried to catch the exceptions but was unable to do so because of either the way j-ftp is used in the applet or my own lack of knowledge.     The project seems to be dead since 2003, so I don't expect any updates.       So my conclusion it that it is not ready to be used in a production environment. I still need a better solution.  
  Technically, any swing app would work with only small modifications if you have access to the code. If your ready to offer an applet, maybe you could even use java web start (would require even less changes).  
  This is exactly what    IntegralFTP    is - a Java applet wrapped by Javascript. The GUI is all implemented in Javascript, and so you can change it how you like.      It supports SFTP, FTP and FTPS.     You can use IntegralFTP from    http://www.integralftp.com   , or purchase from    here   .  
  What about this one (seems to be opensource)?   http://jupload.sourceforge.net/applet-basic-picture.html    
Java  < -> Javascript for non-Applets?
  I'm working with an existing Java codebase which, while it can be invoked from an HTML page using an    APPLET    tag, does not actually subclass the Applet class. The same jars are also used in a non-browser context, so they did not subclass Applet.     Now I need to communicate some values from Java back to the Javascript of the invoking page. Normally one would do this using JSObject, but so far as I can one has to use JSObject.getWindow which only works for subclasses of Applet.     Is there either:       a way to use JSObject from something which isn't an Applet subclass?     some other mechanism to communicate back to the Javascript of the invoking page?    
  Call    JSObject.getWindow(this)    in the applet. Then pass the    JSObject    into the code that needs it in the usual fashion.  
  I think you're actually going to need to implement an applet in a jar file to handle the communication between your code and the browser itself.  Perhaps just use the non-applet jar as a class lib and make the applet jar a simple wrapper that proxies your calls between the browser and the Java code.  
  What's wrong with returning a value?     From Javascript You can access the Java-object by using getElementById("id-of-embed-tag"). Then you can invoke any public method on that object. The Java object returned by that method will be available to your Javascript code.  
Thats an approach I had not considered. I'd end up polling from the Javascript until something changes, but that might work.
URL decoding in Javascript
  I want to decode a string that has been encoded using the    java.net.URLEncoder.encode()    method.     I tried using the    unescape()    function in javascript, but a problem occurs for blank spaces because    java.net.URLEncoder.encode()    converts a blank space  to '+' but    unescape()    won't convert '+' to a blank space.  
  Try    decodeURI("")    or    decodeURIComponent("")    !-)  
Just because it takes a string as argument !-)
  Using JavaScript's escape/unescape function is almost always the wrong thing, it is incompatible with URL-encoding or any other standard encoding on the web. Non-ASCII characters are treated unexpectedly as well as spaces, and older browsers don't necessarily have the same behaviour.     As mentioned by roenving, the method you want is decodeURIComponent(). This is a newer addition which you won't find on IE 5.0, so if you need to support that browser (let's hope not, nowadays!) you'd need to implement the function yourself. And for non-ASCII characters that means you need to implement a UTF-8 encoder. Code is available if you need it.  
  decodeURI[Component] doesn't handle + as space either (at least on FF3, where I tested).     Simple workaround:       Indeed, unescape chokes on this URL: it knows only UTF-16 chars like %u2318 which are not standard (see    Percent-encoding   ).  
  Try     
How to register a JavaScript callback in a Java Applet?
  I'm developing an invisible Java Applet, that will be controlled entirely from JavaScript.     I can call the applet's Java methods easily, and I can call JavaScript methods from within the applet by using    netscape.javascript.JSObject.getWindow(this).call()   .     But in order to register a JavaScript callback in the applet, I guess I would need an JavaScript function object of some sort.     I would like to do:       Which I could call from Javascript:       So I could call this function in later code:       Does something like this exist? How can I do this?     Rigth now I'm thinking of creating some Javascript to handle this callback mechanism instead of doing so from the applet.  
  I am brand new to Java    -> JavaScript communication, as I planned to explore it this week. A good opportunity here... :-)     After some tests, it seems you cannot pass a JS function to a Java applet. Unless I am doing it the wrong way...     I tried:       where Call is (are) defined as:       When I pass a JS function (all tests in FF3), I get a null on the Java side.     Note that the following Java routine allows to display the JS code of DumberTest function!       To the point: I made a JS function:       I extract the name of the JS function from the toString result and pass it to Java applet. I don't think we can handle anonymous functions because Java call JS functions by name.     Java side:    
It seems that you can only pass functions to Java by name, therefore what you'd need to do is create a fa ade object which would wrap the applet and which would take function references and come up with temporary names for them.
  win.eval() will call a predefined javascript.    
eval is more generic, hence less efficient than call for this precise task, and it is more complex to pass parameters to the JS function.
  I realise this is a    really    old question, but it ranked 2nd in one of my searches for something else, and I think the below may help someone else that finds this.     I've recently done something similar whereby a Java applet needs to call back into JavaScript on completion of a task, calling different functions on success or error.  As has been the trend over recent times, my needs were to call into anonymous functions defined as parameters being passed to other functions.  This is the javascript on the client side:       As mentioned in the other answers, Java can only call into JavaScript methods by name.  This means you need a global callback method, which can then call into other methods as need be:       This function is called directly from within the Java applet:       You could hold on to the reference of the parameter object being passed in indefinitely if you wanted to use it as some form of registered callback rather than a throwaway one if need be etc.     In our case the processing can be time intenstive, so we actually spin up another thread - the callbacks still work here also:    
Why is it not advisable to use JavaScript in JSP?
  Why is it not advisable to use JavaScript in JSP? One rationale that I can think of is turning off the feature in browser would stop the code from executing. Is there any other reason behind this?  
Its a very good thinking.Hope there is no other reason other than this.
downvoted - questions like this should give references to any such assertion
Are you possibly thinking of the assertion that you shouldn't use _Java_ in JSP? It is considered best practice to keep Java business logic in servlets/separate classes and only put display information/html/js in the jsp file.
@Alnitak - could you be more specific
  JSP is a server side technology. That is - Server parses/compiles all the information and then sends it to the client (i.e. your browser). And then..     If received data contains ANY javascript then browser interprets it in its own javascript VM and server is long forgotten by then since HTTP is stateless protocol.     Considering "not recommending JS in web" I wouldn't bother about it. Most of the sites use JS extensively thus turning it off on the client side would render them mostly useless.  
  Afaik, there is no problem in using javascript in jsp, and many sites do use it. Especially if your site is a web app, you    will    have to use both side by side. They are completely independent. You just have to make sure that what you are using each for is appropriate.       As for the part about turning off javascript in a browser making the site unusable, it is true whenever you use javascript, with or without jsp.  
  If you have many clients, then it may be a good idea to put calculations on the clients with JavaScript. If you do everything on the server, you are just going to waste the many processing powers provided by the client's browsers, and the speed advantage of Java would be for naught if too many clients make the server busy. (Thanks to    @Subtenante    in the comments for pointing this out!).     But on the other side, Java running on the server is faster than JavaScript on the client, and it won't suffer from redundant code on the client, for testing which browser the client runs.      JavaScript has its uses as trex pointed out, though. Since it runs on the client, it can for example validate form fields before sending it to the server.   
Java is faster than JS, ok, but you have one server, and there may be LOTS of clients. Heavy functionalities may show a gain of performance when left out to the client, relieving the server from it.
Thanks for the comment. I agree with you, and amended my answer. I feel today that i don't in particular like my answer very much. If i could, i would delete my answer and tell the questioner to select another one from below :) But i hope you agree with my answer now :)
  I know this is a very old question but I thought I would pipe in anyways. I think you should use javascript in this current time period as it allows for a very rich user experience and with js libraries like jQuery (my personal favorite), prototype and mootools it has become very easy to integrate javascript into your application with little effort.     If you design your application right, you can add javascript that enriches the user's experience (and can make it easier for them to use your site/application) without additional server overhead and very little effort.     How ever - your site should not rely on the javascript for function as the user's browser may not support it.     Javascript should be unobtrusive and provide a richer experience to those user's who support it.     Here is a good article about UI and upgrading gracefully instead of designing for the failure of the user's browser.    http://realtech.burningbird.net/javascript/accessibility/gracefully-upgrading    
  He's got to mean "don't use java scriptlets", which is the stuff between    %  %>.     The biggest reason has got to be maintainability and debugging; scriptlets make everything make both very difficult.      On the other hand, if you implement taglibs, you can extract any logic to a real java class, which is easily debugged, and you will still be able to open things up in a visual xml/html editor, since taglibs are a valid xml structure.     Now, it is a bad idea to do validation on the client side (in javascript). Users can disable javascript or even access a url directly to get around validation, which opens you up to exploits.  
"Now, it is a bad idea to do validation on the client side (in javascript)." It's bad to *only* validate on the client side. Doing it in *addition*, however, makes for better responsiveness (no need to wait for the server to reject it and reduction of load of the server).
I would not disagree with this.
Online exam web application
  I am developing an online exam using JSP/Servlets which is nearing completion. I'm planning to add timer function for the entire exam that shows elapsed time in minutes. How do I implement this with a fool-proof technique to implement this, because using javascript would mean that the user can turn off the feature in the browser. Any help on this would be highly appreciated.  
You can find a very good script here: http://codecanyon.net/item/online-skills-assessment/9379895 It is a good starting point for people looking to develop Online Exam System
  Server Side      Store the time elapsed in the users session.     Your pages can display the time remaining in javascript, People can mess with the javascript but they have no capability of messing with your timing logic always get the time remaining from server.     Current Time - Start Time on all answers etc  
  Record the time that the user started and finished on the server. The user will have to press a button to indicate that they've started the exam, which can trigger the server to stamp the start time; when the final answer is submitted, the server can record the total time taken.  
  You can make javascript a requirement in the user's browser, and use javascript+AJAX - every minute, get the updated time from the server or make sure the times are synchronised.  
you can make javascript a requirement OR use ajax???? huh?
my bad... meant 'and'
  At    Terracotta   , we recently developed a reference web application for online exam-taking.  We also implemented a client-side timer with Javascript and the code is open-source if you'd like to take a look.     The main page for the docs and live demo is    http://reference.terracotta.org       The project source for the last release is here:   http://svn.terracotta.org/svn/forge/projects/exam/tags/release-1.0.1/       The actual Javascript timer code is    here   .  Hopefully that's enough pointers to go on.  
  Better You trace exam starting time and store it into server.In client side you can use the count down timer.If they disable the javascript it affects the timer running in client.  
  The better way to manage timer is on client side instead of server side. What will happen if the network is very slow?     A guy with poor internet speed can not finish exam since your logic is on server side. You may look Skill Evaluation Lab exam software timer management and implement like this.  
  I prefer you buy available online scripts in market as starting point for it. This will save you time, cost and testing efforts.     Below is one of the fine scripts that I worked it and it worked like charm. Using this as base I developed a online testing portal of over 1000 users using computer adaptive test.       http://codecanyon.net/item/online-skills-assessment/9379895       It is a good starting point for people looking to develop Online Exam System  
Session management in GWT without using Java on the server?
  I am using GWT for my client side application.  I am not using GWT/Java for the server.  However, I am not sure how I can handle session management.  The GWT application resides on one page, all server calls are done via AJAX.  If a session expires on the server... let's assume the user didn't close the browser, but left the application open, how could my server notify the application that the session has expired and that the client side portion should show the login screen again?     What is meant by client side session management?  That seems inherently insecure.     I'm not looking for code.  I'm looking for ideas, techniques, potential solutions etc.  I've considered Comet    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comet_(programming)   , but that doesn't seem like that will work very well without using Java on the server side.  Maybe, I'm wrong? I don't want to poll the server either.       Any thoughts or insight?  
  What should happen if the session expired on the server-side, then the next time the client sends a request to the server, it will either create a new session, or, more likely, send back a message to the client that it is trying to access a page without a session, and send them to the login screen. However, you will still need to wait until the client sends a message to the server.  
  Without knowing how you're doing your RPC is working, its hard to give good advice.     If your AJAX service requires a user to be authenticated (IE have a valid session), it is ok to just send a 401 error saying that the user is invalid.  Client-side can interpret the 401 error as a message that it should set the user up for re-authentication.  
I'm not using RPC, the GWT request object is just a wrapper around XMLHttpRequest.  Great idea! I've never thought about changing the http status code.  I may end up using this.
  We handled this in our application, by detecting when the server sent back a redirect to the login screen (it would come through the response to the Ajax call), and popped up a dialog asking the user for their password again, but pre-filled their username. We then posted that to the same place the login page does, as if it was the login page, and so the user was logged into this new session automatically. Finally we just re-submitted the ajax call again, so it was a seamless process to the user (eg: they didn't have to click the action again).     Since we stored all the state on the client, and not in session variables we didn't have any problems trying to persist data across sessions.  
different WAR files, shared resources
  Suppose you have several applications which share the same code and most of the other resources, but have a somewhat different look and feel, some labels change, etc.  (think branding). If each web app is to go in its own WAR file, where do you put the shared resources?     I already use the classpath to share classes and property files. But what about javascript and css files? Is the best way to create and deploy one extra WAR file that will serve these shared files to whatever other application requires them?     I also thought of a build script that does some magic and from a common source spews out the (slightly) different WARs, but I don't like it because it just complicates stuff unnecessarily when you need to build/test/run a single application.     Any other tips and tricks would be appreciated.  
  You can deploy both WARs in the same EAR and put common resources in the EAR.  Then put the appropriate dependencies in the manifest of the web apps to link to the jar files in the ear.  
  If you don't want to go the EAR route, using tomcat, etc; there are a few other ways to achieve the consistency you want.     If you want to share just js and css, look into    pack:tag   .  You could host the .js and css from an apache server, set up your httpd.conf so your webapps can call it, then use pack:tag from your application wars - DRY and compression in one step.  
  Thanks for the replies so far, but I'm afraid I forgot to mention that the WARs will be deployed in different environments that are completely isolated from each other.     So maybe having a common WAR deployed next to the actual application is the only option. I think I'll go with the following:       WAR1, WAR2 containing app-specific stuff     CommonWAR containg common stuff (no kidding)     EAR1: WAR1 + CommonWAR, to be deployed in env1     EAR2: WAR2 + CommonWAR, to be deployed in env2    
The CommonWar serves no purpose in this case.  Just put your common resources in each WAR in it's lib directory, or in the EAR itself.  A war is not meant to just package resources, the EAR serves that purpose.  Although less configuration is required if you simple put it in each WAR.
Yes, but if I put the common resources in each WAR file then I duplicate those resources: won't do that. If I put the common resources in the EAR file then it must contain all the WAR files that depend upon those resources: can't do either, one WAR must be deployed per environment.
Since you are deploying the CommonWAR in each EAR anyway, the same duplication exists, and you have wrapped the code in a WAR for no reason.
The CommonWAR is deployed in two EARs, but it is the *same* CommonWAR, so it is NOT duplicated "for development". To be honest, I have reverted to 2 EAR files and one WAR file, see my updated post :)
    Update       Yes, me again. I have actually changed my mind (again :) ). I am currently trying (being more prudent here):       (Common)WAR: containing the application, common (most part) + some specific stuff     EAR1: CommonWAR + specific configuration file for env1     EAR2: CommonWAR + specific configuration file for env2       The configuration file is picked up by the WAR. It is on the the EAR classpath and only contains one property 'application' with a value. The single WAR will then use this information where appropriate to distinguish between the two apps (config, style sheets, ...).     With my solution of EAR1 = CommonWAR + WAR1, EAR2 = CommonWAR + WAR2, it was too difficult or impossible to lookup static resources in the CommonWAR without using a web url (e.g. images in PDF documents generated with iText).  
  A strategy that I have seen used for such product-line like configurations is using WAR    overlays    when building with    maven   . You define a common WAR that contains the common stuff and overlay it with those other WARs that contain the specific stuff to generate different WARs for every application. This method is probably most useful if you deploy the WAR-variants on different machines. But I'm not sure whether I can actually recommend this.     Remember to specify the overlays configuration if you actually override stuff, since otherwise the overriding order is not deterministic. It might even change with a maven-war-plugin upgrade. (It did in our case.)  
  How about putting your css and js in the classpath and serve them with a servlet? Then you can build the common resources as a jar and that jar can even contain the servlet (resource dispatcher if you like) and the war files can contain the jar file in the WEB-INF/lib folder.  
You can also dispatch images this way
Which JavaScript library you recommend to use with Java EE + Struts + iBatis?
  Which JavaScript library you recommend to use with Java EE + Struts + iBatis ? Something like Ext JS, Dojo, frameworks that can be easily integrated with Struts.  
What are you using the JS library for?  Do you need widgets and advanced UI components?  What are your licensing restrictions?
I need JS for display enhancements, and I need free libraries
  There exists a framework that is supposed to tie in nicely with Java Server/Middleware called    JSON-RPC       However I have never used it and cannot vouch for it.. Aside from that my favourite framework is    cough       jQuery         edit    after reading more closely, the JSON-RPC is not quite what you are looking for.. but it still might be useful for ya to look into ;)  
  Here's a good article on    Dojo for Java Developers   .  
Some more recent: http://www.sitepen.com/blog/2008/05/06/dojo-json-rpc-java/ AND http://www.sitepen.com/blog/2011/01/03/many-comet-solutions-for-your-real-time-apps/
  You must choose the Javascript library based on what you expect from the library, not based on the server libraries. The tipical JS libraries (Ext JS, JQuery, Prototype, Dojo, YUI, etc) work on the browser and don't have any dependence on server tecnology.     If you are looking for a way to use your server POJO's from javascript take a look at    DWR   . This library is now part of the dojo foundation, but I've used it with jQuery and Prototype with ease.  
  would suggest you go for Struts 2. It has built in dojo and also has options to plugin other libraries like prototype, jquery, gwt, yui, etc.     Should be really handy, since you're using Struts as your web layer..  
Sorting domain names
  Has anyone implemented sorting a list of domain names?     I have seen some applications sort them as flat strings, but the problem is that you end up scattering all the related hosts in a domain:     a.me.com a.you.com b.me.com b.you.com     So, the basic logic I came up with reverse the order of the labels, then sort.     FQDNs of one label should be treated as hostnames, and probably sorted separately, maybe at the top.     Ideally I am looking for javascript and java versions.     I also don't know if this design works well for the newer internationalized domain names.  
Err, what's wrong with doing exactly what you suggest, reversing the strings and sorting alphabetically?
  You could split the domain names into individual fields and do successive sorts. You can create a domain name object to have three fields and create a list of domain names to sort. For each of the three fields, do a sort. At the end, you have a sort list of domain names with related hosts together.  
split by "." then piece together ".com.au" and ".co.uk" vs ".com"
@Bala: Three fields?
From the few examples given, I assumed there were three fields (foo.bar.com). If there were only two fields (foo.com), then the third field would be null.
  This is a result of the big-endian vs little-endian war of the early 80s which the little-endian team won.  In the UK, domain names were originally ordered like (the hypothetical) 'uk.ac.leeds' for the UK 'academic' (University of) Leeds.  This is big-endian ordering - and makes your sort far easier. It would also make it far harder to spoof internet sites in URLs.  Of course, nowadays, the order is little-endian, and the hypothetical URL would be 'leeds.ac.uk'.     To sort related domain names together sensibly, you will have to achieve the effect of sorting by furthest right component (.com, .uk, .org) first, then the next left, and repeat...  In other words (as @Bala said), you will have to do something similar to splitting the names up and sorting from right-to-left.  
  I don't know about Java and Javascript in particular, but many languages provide some sort of array data structure that can be lexicographically sorted.  So, like you said, convert "a.example.com" into {"com", "example", "a"}, and just let the default sorting rules run.  A lexicographical sort will then do exactly what you want.     If you have a list of local domains as well as FQDNs, I agree you'd want to separate those out.  Anything that doesn't have a period in it could be filtered out first.  Or, you could resolve those all to FQDNs and then just sort the whole list.     Some Python code that does this (should map to Javascript fairly closely):       This prints:    
  Based on    Tom's answer   ...        The print statements work (when uncommented) in the    SquareFree JavaScript Development Environment   , a handy place to test out javascript fragments...  
Thank you for the translation, Stobor!
  This is how it's done in Perl:    
Best source code formatter for Javascript?
  I've been digging through Stack Overflow as well as a number of Google searches, and I cannot find a satisfactory code formatter for Javascript.     I have found several related tools, such as syntax highlighters and pretty-printers, but I am looking for a tool that I can ideally create a wrapper for in Eclipse and simply run from the menu bar. Hence, if any Java-based ones are available, that is a big plus. Free and/or open-source is preferred as well.     I am looking for something that my development group can use to maintain a consistent code style.     Thanks.       [EDIT]    Thank you for the incredibly fast responses! I would upvote you both if I had any karma. But especially kRON for linking to the    format customizations    page.       [EDIT]       Related question    on Stack Overflow.  
  In one breath:    Aptana Studio   ! Yes, it's Java based and free (Eclipse, as standalone or plugin).     You can also    customize the formatting   .  
  If you already use Eclipse, I recommend you to try    Aptana   , you can install it as an Eclipse Plugin.  
  If you also need Java programming i can recommend '   IntelliJ IDEA   '      It offers excellent JavaScript formatting and refactoring out of the box.  
  This is by far the best I've come across:    http://jsbeautifier.org/       Its an online tool, but source is available.  
  Have you tried    jsfiddler   . It's great for trying things out with Javascript. Built in JSLint     something called Tidy. Not sure whether that infers    jstidy       Piotr Zalewa    is the guy who wrote it. May be worth giving him a Tweet    @zalun    to confirm.   
  If you need source code, you might check out the code I present in the article    A JavaScript Formatter   .  
  If you are using notepad++, you can try jsminnpp plugin  
      For Eclipse IDE you can use    JavaScript Code Formatter    based on    Goolge's Style Guide           For IntelliJ IDEA you can use the same js code formatter xml file , but previously you have to install a special plugin    Eclipse Code Formatter Plugin   , which solves the problem of maintaining a common code style in team environments where both IDEA and Eclipse are used       
How can I set globals to JSLint to ignore for a whole set of files?
  I'd like to run JSLint4Java as part of my build process.  I have about 1000 JS files in a library, and don't really want to add a       header to each of them -- especially since many of them are from an external library (Dojo).  If I don't add the header, though, JSLint complains about the same five globals on nearly every single file.  Is there a way to tell JSLint to ignore them?  Some things I've thought of so far:         Some sort of AntFileMap task that creates a virtual directory hierarchy that's an exact copy of another hierarchy, but has a filter applied to each file (in this case, prepend with a    /*globals */    header).         Hack JSLint4Java to accept a set of    globals    which it prepends as a comment to the beginning of every file it processes.         I've never seen anything like (1).  (2) seems relatively easy, but I'd prefer to use original tools if possible.  Any better suggestions?  
Hi James, I'm curious if you ever worked out a solution to this.
  From    http://www.ohloh.net/p/jslint4java            News 2009-12-02. jslint4java 1.3.3 is   released. Noteworthy alterations: Add   support for the predef option, to   allow specifying a list of predefined   global variables.       Sounds like what you might be looking for. Try the --help option to get the syntax, maybe?  
  You can also use    LintRoller    - a Node.js utility for checking entire directories or projects against JSLint, JSHint and other validations.  
Java based Swing Browser should support JavaScript
  In my company, I am implementing a java based html browser. I found a lot of tools to generate complete browsers only in Swing which are looking like Mozilla. But I was not able to find a browser which supports JavaScript. The browser I will implement should execute JavaScript inside the HTML sides.     Do you know of a tool that supports this? Or do you know of a parser which pairs the javascript to something I can use inside the html browser?     I know that the eclipse plugins can handle javascript, but I can not use AWT in my project.     Thanks for your help.  
  You don't want to build this yourself.  Fortunately, there are a number of open source    javascript engines    you might be able to adapt.  
add the moment the html sides are shown by using C++ and a firefox plugin, but i should use the existing html sides which including javascript. I have no choice, i have to show html with javascript.
I'm not saying don't do it:  I'm saying find someone else that's already done it and use that.
    In my company, I am implementing a java based html browser.       Good God, why?     That said,    this page at java.net    discusses some options; you could search it more extensively.  
  I'd look at    Lobo   .  It sounds like just want you want.  It has a HTML Renderer and parser, and some support for Javascript.  If it's missing a feature of Javascript that you need, it seems like it would easier to contribute to Lobo, instead of reinventing the wheel.  
That sounds like a good solution. I will test this. Thanks
Will you please tell me that how to implement this?
  It will be available. I hope pretty soon.     Its name is JWebPane and it is based on WebKit afaik.     The interesting question is "When"     Here's the link:       http://weblogs.java.net/blog/ixmal/archive/2008/05/introducing_jwe.html    
News today: http://weblogs.java.net/blog/alex2d/archive/2008/12/jwebpane_projec.html
How to resize a java applet when the browser is resized?
  I have a java applet that is embedded in html using the    object-comment-embed    method. I would like to resize the applet whenever the browser window is resized. I have found solutions around the internet, but they all work based on the deprecated    applet    tag.     Also, when trying a    setSize()    call on my    embed    element in FireBug, it will resize the content of the applet, but not the applet viewport. That is, the area of the display that is given over to java does not change.     Current code looks something like this:    
does your resize function get called? (e.g. where is the error so far?)
  Try replacing these lines:       with:    
My vote is for this method. I've basically done this same thing to resize ActiveX controls. It should work the same for an Applet.
This worked!  I was doing the same thing, using setSize().  It was being called but the applet wasn't resizing.  Thanks!
  Why don't you use percentage width and height. I usually use the following code for my applets:    
Netbeans intellisense for Yahoo utils
  In netbeans I created an html page in which I am using Yahoo utils.  If I type "yahoo." then namespace, render, hide are not visible in the interactive documentation.  Please tell me how to configure Netbeans to handle this.  
  I don't use Netbeans, but I do know that Javascript is case-senstive, and that the global Yahoo object is    YAHOO   , not    yahoo   .     So try it in all caps.  
Sending a value from javascript to jsp (with jquery)
  right now i have a jsp page that allows to sort some items, when is ready and a link is clicked a javascript function converts all the info into xml (text in a variable), after this i need to send this xml to the jsp page again, i tried putting the info in a hidden input and submiting the form, sending with $.post and a few more jquery functions but nothing worked. Any ideas?     in my JSP im reading the post like this:       This doesnt work:       This either:       replacing .text with .html doesnt work     Any ideas are welcome, thx  
  You could always use an XMLHttpRequest to send the data.  This can be done with our without user interaction on an element such as a form submit button.  jQuery has functionality built in for assisting with such requests.       http://docs.jquery.com/Ajax    
Suggesting another library is like creating a mess here. JQuery is as good as Prototype in making AJAX calls, if not better.
  Trying using the    jQuery Ajax    API - you can use it to send arbitrary data via GET or POST and you don't need to set up a hidden form or anything.  
Yes, we don't submit forms, like we traditionally do. A sound suggestion.
  You're probably going the wrong way here. You didn't provide the html code, but I assume it is something like this:       If that is correct, then you should say    $("#data").val(xml);    instead of    text()    or    html()    as those change the matched thing with text or html you provide. This should work for your current solution.     Also I'd propose to look at jQuery's    $.post()    and others as an alternative to packing everything as xml unless this is really what you want on the backend. It could be easier to just make up a javascript object with all the values keyed by some names and pass it on to one of jQuery's    $.post(), $.get()   , etc. like this:       Actually it only occured to me now that you can also send your xml this way (unless you prefer your way of doing things):       You might want to enlighten yourself more here:    Ajax @ jQuery docs    
The Google Maps Wikipedia Layer
  Is there a way to programmatically list all geo-tagged Wikipedia entries within a radius of a long/lat point? I'm thinking this is possible with the google maps API but I am interested in any method. NOTE: I do not want to display a googlemap.  
  Yes, it's possible.  The hard part is either:     (1) Screen-scraping Wikipedia (bad idea, unless you already have a (small) list of target pages)     (2) Downloading and parsing the massive    Wikipedia data sets    (better idea)     Once you have lat/long coordinates, which I assume are in the wiki page's geotag format, you can use the    great circle formula    to compute relative distances, and bypass Google's API entirely.     The moral of this story?  When you've dealing with datasets this massive, you're going to want to do as much of it offline as possible.  
  I've solved a slightly similar problem by using the    GeoNames webservices   .     You can use the webservice to request cities and so on. There is a per-ip-limitation you may not exceed.     I searched a little further and there's something interesting for you. The webservice is called      findNearByWikipedia     . It may be the thing you're searching for...  
  Another option is using DbPedia SPARQL interface. For example, the following SPARQL query gets wikipedia articles within bounding box limited by coordinates.     SPARQL libraries widely available, for example for    SPARQL Endpoint interface to Python         To test it, just paste the query below to this online query editor:       http://dbpedia.org/sparql         Gets the following result:    
How to preview a file on the server in JBoss
  I need some ideas on how I can best solve this problem.     I have a JBoss Seam application running on JBoss 4.3.3 What a small portion of this application does is generate an html and a pdf document based on an Open Office template.     The files that are generated I put inside /tmp/ on the filesystem. I have tried with System.getProperties("tmp.dir") and some other options, and they always return $JBOSS_HOME/bin  I would like to choose the path $JBOSS_HOME/$DEPLOY/myEAR.ear/myWAR.war/WhateverLocationHere/     However, I don't know how I can programatically choose path without giving an absolute path, or setting $JBOSS_HOME and $DEPLOY.       The second question; I want to easily preview these generated files. Either through JavaScript, or whatever is the easiest way. However, JavaScript cannot access the filesystem on the server, so I cannot open the file through JavaScript.    
  Not sure I have a complete grasp of what you are trying to achieve, but I'll give it a try anyway:     My assumption is that your final goal is to make some files (PDF, HTML) available to end users via a web application.     In that case, why not have Apache serve those file to the end users, so you only need your JBOSS application to know the path of a directory that is mapped to an Apache virtual host.     So basically, create a file and save it as /var/www/html/myappfiles/tempfile.pdf (the folder your application knows), and then provide    http://mydomain.com/myappfiles    (an Apache virtual host) to your users. The rest will be done by the web server.     You will have to set an environment variable or system property to let your application know where your folder resides (/var/www/html/myappfiles/ in this example).     Hopefully I was not way off :)  
  I'm not sure if this works in JBoss, given that you want a path inside a WAR archive, but you could try using    ServletContext.getRealPath(String)   .     However, I personally would not want generated files to be inside my deployed application; instead I would configure an external data directory somewhere like    $JBOSS_HOME/server/default/data/myapp    
      I agree with Peter (yo Pete!). Put the directory outside of your WAR and setup an environment variable pointing to this. Have a read of    this post    by Jacob Orshalick about how to configure environment variables in Seam :          As for previewing PDFs, have a look at how Google Docs handles previewing PDFs - it displays them as an image. To do this with Java check out the    Sun PDF Renderer   .       
  Not sure how you are generating your PDFs, but if possible, skip the disk IO all together, stash the PDF content in a    byte[]    and flush it out to the user in a servlet setting the mime type to    application/pdf   * that responds to a URL which is specified by a link in your client or dynamically set in a      div      by javascript. You're probably taking the memory hit anyways, and in addition to skipping the IO, you don't have to worry about deleting the tmp files when you're done with the preview.       *   I think this is right. Need to look it up.  
I did something like this, and it worked great. Thanks
    First, most platforms use    java.io.tmpdir    to set a temporary directory. Some servlet containers redefine this property to be something underneath their tree. Why do you care where the file gets written?     Second, I agree with Nicholas: After generating the PDF on the server side, you can generate a URL that, when clicked, sends the file to the browser. If you use MIME type    application/pdf   , the browser should do the right thing with it.    
Is Google Web Toolkit useful to develop complex javascripts?
  Iam a great fan of javascript frameworks especially jQuery .I have always wanted to design sites like "plurk.com" but i know that it needs very huge lines of javascript.so that shut me off.But since i came to know GWT , i really want to test it out and want to ask you if it makes our job easier to develop complex things than with the javascript or its frameworks .Which one would you prefer ?  
  With GWT, you're not actually writing JavaScript; it's entire value proposition is that you can write Java that it will compile down to JavaScript for you.  
ya i know . but i just want to know , does that simplify the process of developing complex javascripts - very huge lines of javascript code ?
I guess if you trust that google will do it better than you would and you know your Java it *could* do - personally I'm against it, but it probably has niche value for someone
  No. It doesn't.      It doesn't remove the complexity, it just makes it possible for you to deal with it from a Java Perspective. Since that gives you all the Tooling available from Java... that alone might make it worthwhile.     JavaScript IDEs are getting better and better though, and typically if you're using a Framework like jQuery or Prototype, then you're probably going to find it easier than dealing with a heavy weight abstraction layer like GWT.     My personal preference is to take the pure JavaScript approach, but that's because I like being able to work more closely to metal, and I'm disciplined enough to tame my JavaScript cats.  
  Yes, it does, since you'll be using Java and not Javascript.     Superb IDEs, static code analysis, searching and refactoring - all this will make your life much easier on large projects.  
  Few things scare me like "generated Javascript".     The Law of Leaky Abstractions    has got to be doubly true in these cases.       Writing effective cross-browser javascript is a tricky process of continuous refinement.  Trying to decipher where some generated, obscured Javascript is going wrong is a major headache.  It's bad enough fixing bugs in the pure JS libraries.     To me, GWT is a trick aimed at allowing backend developers to write front-end, in-browser code.  Unfortunately, the realities of modern web apps mean you just have to know Javascript and the DOM. Something's going to break, and you're going to need to know why.     I think you're better off picking a good javascript library like jquery or prototype, and learning that well.  Those libraries abstract away the sort of stuff that SHOULD be abstracted away and is unlikely to break in edge cases, like array operations and AJAX requests.  
Do you think the same way about generated Assembler? Handling all those differences between different Processor architecures? I am not saying, that GWT is necessarily there yet. But Generating one language out of another is nothing scary at all.
the problem is that since JS is a high-level language, there are several features you'd like to use.  for example a hashtable.  it's not exactly the same semantics as Java maps, so they write an emulation layer. therefore they're no longer usable as JS objects. same for other things...
Another difference is that, besides being a much more mature technology, assembler is very highly tuned towards a single architecture.  The same cannot be said of Javascript, which must support scores of different browsers and version.
not to mention that all modern cpu instruction sets are designed for the compiler, not for a human programmer; just like bytecodes are designed with a specific language in mind.
I suspect you've never used GWT in a large scale project. It doesn't make cross browser stuff harder, it makes it easier. People worry about going through generated javascript, but the truth is you never have to, just like you never have to look at java byte code, because the compiler is top-notch.
disregarding whether compiled js is good or bad, gwt offers hosted mode debugging, and simple unit test integration, which is a must in large projects. However, there are some growing pains involved with gwt, but nothing too bad. GWT is more suitable for large scale ajax app vs medium scale ones.
Using GWT is really no different then using jQuery or Prototype.  If there is a bug in the library you are using, it will make your life difficult.  The same problems exist for GWT.  The difference is that GWT has Google's developers backing it up, not just the few people behind the other libraries.
  I'm working on a project that has used GWT to pretty good effect.  It's a good choice for us since we're all primarily Java developers working on internal tools.  I can't speak to how useful it is for large end-user sites.     One advantage I particularly appreciate is the seamless object serialization and deserialization.  Not only are the details of XML-RPC abstracted away, but since the same Java code is compiled to byte code for the server and javascript for the browser, you can code almost as if the server and client were running in separate class loaders in the same JVM.  For instance, you can construct a Java object on the server, send it to the browser as the return value from an RPC service call and the browser code can then use the identical Java class to manipulate the object you just returned.  Likewise, parameters to RPC calls can be constructed as Java objects, with the server receiving an identical Java object on the other end.  All this without mucking about in the details of (de)serialization.  
GWT doesnt actually use XML-RPC, but yea, the rest of the post is my sentiments exactly.
  I think a few of the answers on this question are quite un-informed, and I suspect that the people answering them have never used GWT on large scale projects. Yes GWT is a great way to do large AJAX websites, and for large complex sites, involving a back end as well, it kicks things like JQuery up and down the park. The way I always look at it is that javascript on it's own is great for doing small client side things. When you need to do something more complex (like dynamic fields, popups, animations) you bring in something like JQuery or Prototype. When you want to take it one step further you go with GWT.     People assume that because you write it in Java, it's designed for back end developers to do front end development. It's not. Java is simply the language that they chose, mainly because it's widely used, statically typed and there are lots of good editors out there for it.     I don't buy the leaky abstraction theory either, it doesn't try to fully abstract out the HTML elements, as it gives you direct access to both native javascript and the DOM if you choose to use those.     In short we've built very complex sites (one of which was featured on the GWT blog) in GWT, and also using other libraries like JQuery. I can tell you with 100% confidence that once you get your head around GWT it kills those other frameworks dead for complex tasks. It also has some great built in things that help make things better, and even does some things that no other framework supports (like the magic it can do with images). See this blog post for more details:       http://googlewebtoolkit.blogspot.com/2007/10/epo-builder-built-with-gwt.html    
thanks a lot :) that was great .
Good choice for a lightweight checksum algorithm?
  I find myself needing to generate a checksum for a string of data, for consistency purposes.  The broad idea is that the client can regenerate the checksum based on the payload it recieves and thus detect any corruption that took place in transit.  I am vaguely aware that there are all kinds of mathematical principles behind this kind of thing, and that it's very easy for subtle errors to make the whole algorithm ineffective if you try to roll it yourself.     So I'm looking for advice on a hashing/checksum algorithm with the following criteria:       It will be generated by Javascript, so needs to be relatively light computationally.     The validation will be done by Java (though I cannot see this actually being an issue).     It will take textual input (URL-encoded Unicode, which I believe is ASCII) of a moderate length; typically around 200-300 characters and in all cases below 2000.     The output should be ASCII text as well, and the shorter it can be the better.       I'm primarily interested in something lightweight rather than getting the absolute smallest potential for collisions possible.  Would I be naive to imagine that an eight-character hash would be suitable for this?  I should also clarify that it's not the end of the world if corruption isn't picked up at the validation stage (and I do realise that this will not be 100% reliable), though the rest of my code is markedly less efficient for every corrupt entry that slips through.     Edit - thanks to all that contributed.  I went with the Adler32 option and given that it was natively supported in Java, extremely easy to implement in Javascript, fast to calculate at both ends and have an 8-byte output it was exactly right for my requirements.     (Note that I realise that the network transport is unlikely to be responsible for any corruption errors and won't be folding my arms on this issue just yet; however adding the checksum validation removes one point of failure and means we can focus on other areas should this reoccur.)  
So the whole TCP/IP checksum thing isn't working...  I'm thinking that anything corrupted in transit is going to get rejected at a much lower layer than the application level.
Yeah, this sounds like something usually left to the transport layer. Can you explain your scenario a little more? Where is your data being sent and what specific causes of data corruption are you trying to guard against?
@dtsazza - you mentioned in a comment below that this is for security (malicious users). Can you elaborate? Especially since this will probably run in a browser.
  Use    SHA-1 JS implementation   . It's not as slow as you think (Firefox 3.0 on Core 2 Duo 2.4Ghz hashes over 100KB per second).  
    [UPDATE 30/5/2013: The link to the old JS CRC32 implementation died, so I've now linked to a different one.]       Google CRC32: fast, and much lighter weight than MD5 et al.  There is a Javascript implementation    here   .  
Link now broken unfortunately.
@JamesWestgate: Thanks James, I've found a new one and linked to that.  Incidentally the first JS version I found (at http://noteslog.com/post/crc32-for-javascript/) actually reparses part of the string containing the table for each character processed, which will make it *much* slower than necessary.
Awesome! Thanks :) Looking for something to checksum javascript functions for a browser based animation code generation tool.
  CRC32 is not too hard to implement in any language, it is good enough to detect simple data corruption and when implemted in a good fashion, it is very fast. However you can also try Adler32, which is almost equally good as CRC32, but it's even easier to implement (and about equally fast).       Adler32 in the Wikipedia         CRC32 JavaScript implementation sample       Either of these two (or maybe even both) are available in Java right out of the box.  
CRC32, definitely was designed to be exactly what you describe.
A word of caution:  the JavaScript in the link implements the algorithm with a table[256] of literal values.  If you should modify even a single digit of that table, you will have a nasty bug that is very, very, hard to find!  I prefer implementations that generate the table on the 1st call.
I'll second @D.i.S's comment. Testability is a minus.
    Javascript implementation of MD4, MD5 and SHA1   . BSD license.  
  Are aware that both TCP and UDP (and IP, and Ethernet, and...) already provide checksum protection to data in transit?     Unless you're doing something really weird, if you're seeing corruption, something is very wrong. I suggest starting with a    memory tester   .     Also, you receive strong data integrity protection if you use SSL/TLS.   
Yes, I am was aware of that, though you were right to point it out.  Unfortunately it's in input coming from the world at large, so we need to be able to cope with this anyway (malicious/mischevious users could mangle this for example).
It might be worth pointing out that for any change-detection algorithm, there is always a chance that it won't detect an error.  They all can have collisions or false-negatives, though usually the more expensive algorithms reduce this chance to near-astronomically small probabilities.
@dtsazza: I wonder about the malicious/mischievous users who can mangle packets going across the network, but can't defeat Javascript. Or Adler32.
  Other people have mentioned CRC32 already, but here's a link to the    W3C implementation of CRC-32 for PNG   , as one of the few well-known, reputable sites with a reference CRC implementation.     (A few years back I tried to find a well-known site with a CRC algorithm or at least one that cited the source for its algorithm,     was almost tearing my hair out until I found the PNG page.)  
  Here's a relatively simple one I've 'invented' - there's no mathematical research behind it but it's extremely fast and works in practice. I've also included the Java equivalent that tests the algorithm and shows that there's less than 1 in 10,000,000 chance of failure (it takes a minute or two to run).     JavaScript       Java    
Why? Would you like to share an example?
  This is a rather old thread but I suspect it is still viewed quite often so - if all you need is a short but reliable piece of code to generate a checksum the    Adler32    bit algorithm has to be your choice.  Here is the JavaScript code       The corresponding fiddle demonsrating the algorithm in action is    here   .  
  In my search for a JavaScript implementation of a good checksum algorithm I came across this question.    Andrzej Doyle    rightfully chose Adler32 as the checksum, as it is indeed easy to implement and has some excellent properties.    DroidOS    then provided an actual implementation in JavaScript, which demonstrated the simplicity.      However, the algorithm can be further improved upon as detailed in the Wikipedia page and as implemented below. The trick is that you need not determine the modulo in each step. Rather, you can defer this to the end. This considerably increases the speed of the implementation, up to 6x faster on Chrome and Safari. In addition, this optimalisation does not affect the readability of the code making it a win-win. As such, it definitely fits in well with the original question as to having an algorithm / implementation that is computationally light.         edit:       imaya    created a jsperf comparison a while back showing the difference in speed when running the simple version, as detailed by    DroidOS   , compared to an optimised version that defers the modulo operation. I have added the above implementation under the name      full-length      to the    jsperf page    showing that the above implementation is about 25% faster than the one from    imaya    and about 570% faster than the simple implementation (tests run on Chrome 30):    http://jsperf.com/adler-32-simple-vs-optimized/6         edit2:    please don't forget that, when working on large files, you will eventually hit the limit of your JavaScript implementation in terms of the a and b variables. As such, when working with a large data source, you should perform intermediate modulo operations as to ensure that you do not exceed the maximum value of the integer that you can reliably store.  
Detect version of Java using JavaScript
  Is there a reliable way of detecting what version of Java is installed on the client's machine using JavaScript?  
Check out the solution [here](http://www.spiration.co.uk/post/1186/Java%20detect%20brower,%20JVM%20vendor,%20Java%20version%20etc). Works like a charm (at least on the local machine, yet I didn't test it on different environments).
  Check out the code in the    Java Deployment Toolkit   .  
In case someone comes across this again, note the toolkit has a major flaw: it returns the highest version of Java that is installed on the machine, not the highest version that is actually runnable (in IE, at any rate). Specifically, if you have both a Sun JRE and MSJVM installed, the toolkit will report the Sun JRE version even if it's disabled and the browser will actually run MSJVM. Adam Bellaire's link below seems more reliable, albeit less "clean" because it requires running an actual applet.
Update: This link is now broken. It looks like Adam Bellaire's link is going to be the one to use.
Moreover, this method makes the MSIE gold security warning bar to be popped up under MSIE7 with Sun JDK before 1.6.0_2 (with Middle-High security settings). See http://www.pinlady.net/PluginDetect for a version which does not raise security warnings (and is maintained).
  Googling for       detect "java version" using javascript       yields a couple of results,    this one    looks like it might be useful.  In essence, it tries to load a Java applet and then JavaScript asks the applet.  
Ironically, this page is now the first search result on Google for `detect "java version" using javascript`
  You can use the PluginDetect library from here:   http://www.pinlady.net/PluginDetect/    
  If you use Google Analytics,    this post    might be helpful (see the    forum thread    for more details).  
  According to the fact that we're finding this page with google, just to help the next guys finding this.     Is Java installed?         http://www.w3schools.com/jsref/met_nav_javaenabled.asp       Which version of Java is installed?         http://java.sun.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/jweb/deployment_advice.html#deplToolkit       It's the best way I found to find the version of Java with JavaScript, but use it carefully because its version detection is really os/browser dependent, and on old browser version or on recent browser with old Java installed, it'll not work as expected. Take the time to do real tests before to use it in production.  
That does not give any information about the version (which the question is about).
You're right, I didn't answer where I thought I was. Fixed my answer.
This is just a duplicate of [Rich Apodaca's previous answer](http://stackoverflow.com/a/440227/157247), and Dan's comment on it applies.
Yeah ... just make it more explicite for thoses who doesn't understand everything on the page he gave, or if ever the link dies ... or just to save some time to the next guys who find this page via Google. I didn't mean to steal one's good answer.
@T.J.Crowder Top 0.02% user gets schooled by a first time answerer in Stack Overflow's philosophy of making the internet better. That's something you don't see every day.
@PatrickMcElhaney: The correct way to improve someone else's answer is to improve someone else's answer. (And the answer as it was at the time of that comment was not the answer it is now.)
@T.J.Crowder I'm not sure sarlak had any options at his disposal at the time other than posting a new answer. He couldn't post a comment and probably couldn't suggest an edit either.
@PatrickMcElhaney: Right. And there's a reason for those restrictions on new users. But I'm not going to prolong the discussion. :-) Best,
This doesn't work unless the j in deployJava is capitalized, just FYI.
  The detection logic does not work in IE32 on Windows7-64. It could not detect the java version it installed earlier.      Well, after further reading, the Java Deployment Toolkit on Windows uses ActiveX classid which may pose your app to hackers (see    http://www.kb.cert.org/vuls/id/886582   ). I am out.  
  Version of Java:           Is Java and is Java enable:           These functions works on Opera, Firefox, Chrome. I havn't IE.  
JavaVersion does not work under MSIE since navigator.mimeTypes is always empty on this browser (tested on MSIE7)
  I find that the JavaScript solution provided by the Java Deployment Toolkit gives an error... "deployJava.do_initialize is not a function".     One solution that I have used extensively for many years that does work in all browsers is the    Java Version Display Applet   . Unfortunately the original author's site seems to have disappeared, but you can download a copy of the    Java Version Display Applet    here.  
How to Cross-Compile Java Source Code to JavaScript?
  Given a set of Java source code files, how can I compile them into one or more JavaScript files that can be used with hand-crafted JavaScript?       GWT    is one option, but every example I've seen so far is aimed at building fancy websites. The simple use case of just converting Java source to Javascript that can be used together with handcrafted JavaScript    hasn't been well-documented   .     I started a    thread on the GWT mailing list    on this subject, but opinions seem to be mixed on whether this is even feasible.     One person gave a very useful tip, which was to check out    GWT-Exporter   . The problem is that neither source code nor documentation is readily available, although there's    this    and    this   .     edit: GWT-Exporter source code is    here       I've also seen    Java2Script   . But again, I wasn't able to find examples of how to solve my simple use case.     What's the best approach to this problem? Is there something better I'm missing?  
This question discusses a very similar topic: compiling Java libraries to JavaScript using GWT. http://stackoverflow.com/questions/3125556/gwt-to-create-utility-javascript-library
Very thorough question. You did a great job expressing what you'd explored already. Nicely done.
You can try using Scala-js https://github.com/lampepfl/scala-js for your java project - java/scala interoperability http://www.scala-lang.org/old/faq/4)
  When you use GWT, you're basically converting the UI portion into Javascript (and it assumes that you use the UI widgets provided when you write your Java).  Only some of the Java libraries are accessible within Javascript.  Typically in a GWT application anything that makes heavy use of Java libraries would run on the server side and connect to the Javascript as AJAX (which GWT handles for you).  So GWT isn't necessarily converting your full application into Javascript (though it can if you're willing to limit your use of Java libraries and some functionality).     At any rate, if this approach (calling out to Java running on a server from within Javascript) appeals to you, one nice option is    DWR   , which basically allows your Javascript to directly call methods in Java classes running on the server (without you having to build a web service or other frontend).  Not what you asked, I know.     More relevantly, it looks like there's source code for a    sample app demonstrating the use of gwt-exporter   .  
This would be for a fairly small, non-gui java library. I hadn't seen DWR, which looks like it could be very useful for larger projects. I Didn't even see the source directory for the gwt-exporter project - thanks for pointing it out. That looks promising.
gwt-exporter link is dead
Here's a new link to the sample app: http://code.google.com/p/gwt-exporter/source/browse/trunk/samples/src/main/java/exporterdemo/public/ExporterDemo.html
The new link is also dead. :/
And here's a new link: https://code.google.com/p/gwt-exporter/source/browse/samples/exporterdemo/src/main/java/exporterdemo/public/ExporterDemo.html
Also, here's a link to the project home of gwt-exporter -- that's less likely to change (the sample app changes location when they change their directory format): https://code.google.com/p/gwt-exporter/
  Also you can use    QWT    It has Java2JavaScript compiler on the board.  
       Given a set of Java source code files, how can I compile them into one   or more JavaScript files that can be used with hand-crafted   JavaScript?       There is no direct correlation between both the built-in Java API and Java language features, and those of JavaScript.  So any attempt at creating a "converter" is going to be incomplete.  As a fundamental example, Java classes don't have a direct corresponding JavaScript idiom.     Whether or not an incomplete conversion tool will work for your use case is impossible to know without the source code.       That said, my suggestion to solving your problem would be to first attempt to use    GWT   : set up a demo project, drop in the source of your library and call it from the JavaScript side and see what GWT outputs in it's .js file.  Some of the other tools suggested by other posters here are definitely worth checking out as well.     If that is fruitful and gets you part of the way, great.     From there, you'll need/want to do the remainder of the conversion by hand.  After all, assuming you want the code to actually function correctly, a manual review would definitely be in order.  Some unit tests being converted along with it would be ideal as well.     You don't state how large the source of your project is, but if it's small (let's say less than a thousand lines of code), even a complete conversion by hand shouldn't be extremely difficult.  If it's much larger than that, I would suggest reviewing if you actually want that as JavaScript code anyway.  
  Here's two other options, things to look into and a third option not converting, just living together.           Java2Javascript           I have been wanting to try this out -- Looks closer to what's been asked.  Quoting the web page:          an Eclipse Java to JavaScript compiler plugin and an implementation of JavaScript version of Eclipse Standard Widget Toolkit (SWT) with other common utilities, such as java.lang.* and java.util.*. You can convert your SWT-base Rich Client Platform (RCP) into Rich Internet Application (RIA) by Java2Script Pacemaker.       A limited Java in Javascript experience - You'd need to port your necessary dependencies or find alternatives via tools like jQuery, etc.           DukeScript           As I view DukeScript, it compiles some front-end Javascript and calls Java behind, from the browser's Javascript.  It seems more or less a hybrid approach so you can use the Java wealth of libraries from Javascript.  I will fall foul of a browser security policy for Java.     A more full-Javascript on Java experience leveraging the Java-runtime.  If I wanted that outside the browser environment I'd use Javascript on Java.         Nashhorn         Consider this as an example of using Java's resources as foundation for Javascript:      Nashorn and JavaFX     , as an example for a rich Javascript operated client.  Anyway with a Javascript engine inside Java you're not needing to translate between a Javascript-VM to object-code to a Java-VM quite so much.  
java and javascript callbacks compared
  It seems I don't understand javascript callbacks quite as well as I thought.     In the following example, I would think that each copy of function in setTimeout would refer to its own copy of the variable "index". Therefore, running the example should produce the following alerts: "zero" "one" "two".       However, it seems that theres only one copy of the index variable, and all copies of the callback function point to the same variable, giving me the following alerts: "two" "two" "two".     The following analagous (I thought) example in java prints "zero" "one" "two", as expected.        Can anyone explain to me why the js example doesn't work, and perhaps compare what's going on in the two examples?  
Have you seen: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/442985/how-can-one-de-reference-javascript-variables-when-enclosing-an-outer-scope
Prestaul, thank, that's pretty much my same question. I looked for similar questions before I posted but didn't find this one.
I asked [an almost identical][1] question yesterday and got a couple of different variations in the answers and some discussion on the merits of each.  Might be worth a look   [1]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/442985/how-can-one-de-reference-javascript-variables-when-enclosing-an-outer-scope
    index    changes with each iteration of the loop. What you want is to place    index    into a closure not affected by the loop:    
Thanks. I guess I thought that each iteration of the for loop would create a closure.
Well yes, technically I left that part out. There *is* a closure around index. But it is declared in an outer scope to the function passed to setTimeout. "closure" != "unchanging variable".
Cool. One more question: why does the function declaration need to be wrapped in parens?
@morgancodes: that's just convention; also, there might be some cases where the parser might otherwise produce incorrect results
Firefox tells me there's a syntax error if I leave them out.
closures in javascript (references to variables outside the function)  retain their association... if you refer to a loop variable in a function called after the loop ends, in the function call you get the value of that variable after the loop.
the function call/parens/etc create a copy of the value "i" into the variable "index", at the time of each iteration of the loop.
  In javascript the for loop does not have it's own scope - so a var you create inside a loop is not different from one defined outside of it.  
    Private Members In JavaScript    is my favorite reference on closures.  It is written as a recipe for providing private variables in JS objects (maybe useful, maybe not) but in the process goes through an excellent introduction of how closures work in general, and especially in JS.       The comp.lang.javascript FAQ    has a worthwhile section on closures as well.     Closures can be confusing so I put together a    working example of the shortest useful closure I've come across,    which was in the Rhino book.     Oh and I don't have enough rep to comment yet :) but I saw your question above about why you have to put parenthesis around functions sometimes.  That's only necessary when you    invoke    an anonymous function inline.  For example the parenthesis are required here:       Because you are creating a function and then immediately invoking it.  But the parens are not necessary in the usual case where you are just declaring a named function for later use.  
Thanks Noah. that rhino book example is cool.
String length differs from Javascript to Java code
  I've got a JSP page with a piece of Javascript validation code which limits to a certain amount of characters on submit. I'm using a      textarea      so I can't simply use a length attribute like in a      input type="text"     .     I use    document.getElementById("text").value.length    to get the string length. I'm running Firefox 3.0 on Windows (but I've tested this behavior with IE 6 also). The form gets submitted to a J2EE servlet. In my Java servlet the string length of the parameter is larger than 2000!     I've noticed that this can easily be reproduced by adding carriage returns in the      textarea     . I've used Firebug to assert the length of the      textare      and it really is 2000 characters long. On the Java side though, the carriage returns get converted to UNIX style (   \r\n   , instead of    \n   ), thus the string length differs!     Am I missing something obvious here or what ? If not, how would you reliably (cross-platform / browser) make sure that the      textarea      is limited.   
@Fran ois: Always enclose things in tag brackets in back-ticks (e.g. format them as code), or they will be stripped out on display of your question.
just stumbled across such situation. your topic made my day, sir! thanks a lot!
  Do you particularly care which line-endings are used? Why not just make the Java convert "\r\n" to "\n"? (Note that "\r\n" is the Windows style; "\n" is the Unix style.)     Alternatively, do the reverse when checking the length within the JavaScript.  
OK. I get it. I guess that means that Javascript always represents carriage returns the UNIX way internally and through its APIs (i.e. `length()`). Somehow I gets converted to `\r\n` because the Java VM is running on Windows. I wish it was more uniform...
+1, normalizing sounds good here
I don't know what rules different browsers on servlet engines will apply, but normalization should remove the differences either way. Btw, it's worth trying on macs too, where \r is the normal linebreak.
+1 Just remove all "\r" and everybody will be happy, whatever platform you are using. Macs included.
  Are you limiting it to 2000 chars so it fits inside an nvarchar(2000) column in a database? Otherwise maybe just allow a 2% overrun to be flexible on the Java side.     And Java should be using Unicode UTF16 to represent Strings. That    /r    must have got in there somewhere else, maybe a conversion in the web browser when submitting? Have you tried different browsers? On different platforms? You might just have to strip out the    /r   s.  
  This isn't really a JavaScript (or Java) problem - both layers report an accurate length for the string they are dealing with. The problem in your case is that the string gets transformed during the HTTP transmission.     If you absolutely must ensure that the string doesn't exceed a certain length, you can mimic this transformation on the client by replacing every instance of "\n" with "\n\r" - but only for length verification purposes:    
Note: The code should be `textarea.value.replace(/\n/g, "\n\r").length` to find all occurrences. The original code only looks for the first match.
Thanks. Fixed it.
It should be `"\r\n"`, not `"\n\r"`.
To remember that the right order is `\r\n`, remember `\r` stands for Carriage ?eturn (`Cr`) and `\n` stands for (?ew)Line Feed (`Lf`) in `CrLf`.
I think you need to do the line ending conversion / check on both client and server because you don't know what line endings the client browser is going to use (Firefox submits \n even on Windows) and if you develop server side on Windows and deploy on Linux then the line endings will be handled differently.
Lobo Cobra HtmlPanel does not update GUI after JavaScript action
  HI,     I started implementing a HTML Browser in Swing. I want to use the    Lobo Cobra     toolkit because this toolkit inclused a renderer and parser for CSS and JavaScript. The pages are looking very nice and it is easy to use (one class implementation to show a html page).     I want to show HTML pages in swing which can show javascript generated and modified objects, like a flashing circle. As far as i know, the cobra toolkit can show static javascript commands like 'document.write' or closwWindow() implementations, but not updating the GUI from a JavaScript.     Did someone works with Lobo Cobra Toolkit before and give me some sample code or tips for showing HTML pages with animated JavaScript objects inside.  
  I'm under the impression that, as long as you set yourself up for notifications, your code will be called for all changes to the DOM whether done on page load or dynamically by Javascript following the page load.     I would initially set up an object (X) implementing the DocumentNotificationListener interface and log a message for every method called. Then set that up as a listener with Y.addDocumentNotificationListener(X) [where Y is your HTMLDocumentImpl object] and load up your page to see which methods are actually called.     Worst case is that you'll have to re-render your HTML page on every method call, but you should be able to optimize most of them. For example, changing colors of a node (DOM object), which results in the X.lookInvalidated(...) being called, wouldn't require re-rendering of the whole page as the node size doesn't change.  
Returning JSON in GWT
  I'm still pretty new to JSON and GWT and I'm trying to figure out how to pass JSON data back from a page into my GWT app.  I pass the JSON back to a class:       It's pretty basic and not complete at this moment so I'm just trying (for now) to make sure I can get something back.     The code to call this is:       However I get an error:          No source code is available for type   XYZ.GetProductTree; did   you forget to inherit a required   module?       I am importing the correct package for XYZ.GetProductTree on the call page.  What am I missing?  
  This error is from the compiler, complaining that it can't find that type in it's classpath. For the GWT compiler to find your classes they have to be and in your classpath, and they have to be referenced in a .gwt.xml module file as well. Can you post your package names and the contents of your .gwt.xml files? My guess is that wherever you have put this class it's not visible to the GWT compiler.  
  I am so obtuse sometimes.  I forgot about having to add the source path for my new package.  I added this to a "data" package which I just created and didn't add the path to the XML.  Thanks :)  
To use the Gears WorkerPool in GWT do I have to write the same code in Java and Javascript?
  In order to use the WorkerPool (Javascript Threads) class and functionality in GWT/Gears, do I need to write my code in both Java and Javascript?  Upon inspection of    WorkerPool - Getting Started    and the sample WorkerPool application in the GWT-Gears-1.1 download package it seems that I need to.  It seems that the Java code is used to demonstrate the synchronous nature of Javascript and the same algorithm in Javascript is used for the asynchronous calls.       Am I missing something?  Wasn't GWT created so that you don't have to write Javascript code?  Why can't you write your WorkerThread code in Java and have the compiler compile it to Javascript?     Here is the relevant Java code from that url:       Here is the relevant Javascript code in worker.js (notice how it is the same algorithm written in Javascript):       Here is the call in Java:       Can anyone with experience in GWT and Gears shed some light on this?     Thanks!     Edit:     It seems according to this    http://markmail.org/message/gxipzth2jheccpha#query:+page:1+mid:sabv4llpymbavt7t+state:results    my suspicions are true.  I'm not sure I understand why this limitation exists.  I would love to read any insight on the matter.     Edit 2:     This also seems to confirm it:    http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit/browse_thread/thread/658f6665e5b09bed    
  I have never used Gears for GWT, but after reading your evidence, I believe you are correct in stating that the WorkerPool class can run only JavaScript files and not Java-compiled-to-JavaScript. Here is a quote from the GWT-Gears v1.1.1 WorkerPool API.           WorkerPool module allows web   applications to run JavaScript code in   the background, without blocking the   main page's script execution.   Currently this class can only create   worker threads out of raw JavaScript   code. That is, user code cannot   currently create worker bodies from   Java code.       The WorkerPool class manages the threads and communication, which is no small task.   
How to avoid the form being submitted after displaying alert?
  If the user name and password does not match it displays a alert but if i click ok to the alert the form is logged in.Can any one tell me how to avoid it?Thanks.    
 
  Change the end of your function to     
    Best not do it like that. If the form is submitted without a button click (eg. in various circumstances when Enter is pressed), your validation won't execute.     The best place to put validation is in a form.onsubmit event handler. eg.: lose the onclick in the source and put the test on the form programmatically:       You are of course aware that client-side password checking is fruitless.  
How to access objects/arrays defined in JavaScript from Java applets
  Using LiveConnect getMember(String) method of a window JSObject, a Java object of type "Object" is returned but I don't find the expected members defined on it. Neither can I cast it to a JSObject to continue using the getMember().     Accessing DOM nodes and elements (DOM Objects) works as expected.  
It's rather unclear what exactly you're trying to do - how about showing us some sourcecode?
When you say you can't cast, do you get a specific exception or error ?
@andynormancx Yes. That processing cannot cast from Object to JSObject.
  @Michael Borgwardt     This is what I'm trying to do.     Global JavaScript Object.       Processing code.       This is perhaps not Processing specific. That's why I didn't originally post the code.  
  I'm confused by the line    got2 = win.getMember("obj");   . It seems like you're expecting that line to get the    foo    object. As I understand it,    win.getMember("obj")    will get you the    obj    property on the DOM    window    node, which doesn't exist. For example, from    this page   :       If you want to get the    foo    object, the best way I'm aware of is to make a JavaScript method you can call from the Java applet.       JavaScript:           Applet:      
MDC says that it's supposed to be a "JavaScript Object". Whatever that means. https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Core_JavaScript_1.5_Reference/LiveConnect/JSObject
Yes, but I don't get why you expect it to get the "foo" object. "JavaScript object" just means it's a object from JavaScript that's been translated to a Java object, specifically JSObject.
Did that work for you? Because it's giving me an exception.
It did. What's your exception?
Exception in thread "Animation Thread" java.lang.NullPointerException 	at js_processing_api.draw(js_processing_api.java:34) 	at processing.core.PApplet.handleDraw(PApplet.java:1406) 	at processing.core.PApplet.run(PApplet.java:1311) 	at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:619)
Random guess: try clearing your classloader cache? Bring up your Java console (Tools - Java console in FF, or right click on the Java icon in your systray and pick the console), and hit x to clear it, then reload.
I did try that. It throws the error when I click on the applet.
I'm not sure I have any more suggestions for you, except to be pedantic - are you using the exact code I wrote above? I can get the exception if I have getFoo return null, but my line number is 32 instead of 34, so I suspect you have something else there as well.
It works now. Thanks.. I don't know what the error was but I copy pasted your code and viola it works. Thanks a ton.
There's another problem, how may I assign it the values I get to a variable. The type appears to be an Object and I can't cast it to float or string.
How to transfer java array to javaScript array using jsp?
  I have a list of strings on my server which I am trying to get to the client in the form of an array. The code I am attempting to use is the following:     Within the jsp I have a    List   String      column     I am attempting the following code:       This code simply returns the first element in the columns list for every element in the colArray.     I have also tried:       which does not work either.  I feel like I am making a little mistake somewhere and am just not seeing it. Is what I am trying to do possible in the way that I am attempting?      Thanks.  
  You're getting the JSP code that is executed on the server mixed up with the JavaScript code that's executed on the client. The snippet      %=columns.get(j++)%      is executed once, on the server, and the JavaScript loop around it is irrelevant at this point. When it arrives the the client, the loop's body just says    colArray[i] = "first entry";    which of course puts the same string into every element of the array.     What you need to do instead is to have a loop execute on the server, like this:       My JSP skills are rusty, and the syntax may be different, but I hope you get the idea.       Edit:    As was pointed out in the comments, you need to be VERY careful about escaping anything in those Strings that could cause them to be interpreted as JavaScript code (most prominently quotation marks) - especially if they contain user-generated content. Otherwise you're leaving your app wide open to    Cross-site scripting    and    Cross-site request forgery    attacks.  
This will not work if the strings contain characters such as double-quote, backslash or newline.  Such characters will need to be escaped.
I'd also add a semicolon to the end of the second line.
  Once the JavaScript reaches the client, the server code has stopped executing. The server code does not execute "in parallel" with the client code.     You have to build the entire JavaScript initialization in Java and send it, complete and executable, to the client:       That is just one way to do it, you can also build the output "on the fly" by embedding the server code inside the    [    and    ]   . I used this example to try to demonstrate the separation between building the string that comprises the client-side JavaScript and outputting that to the browser.  
  Try using JSON (Javascript object notation) it'd be quite simple to encode the array and decode it on javascript     check it out here       http://www.json.org/java/index.html    
  Exp Language:    
  The solutions posted above didn't work in my case, I needed an extra Javascript variable to do the transference:    
Is it possible to obtain a web-browser's Java VM without using an applet?
  We have an ages old Java applet that we want to move forward to a newer version of Java (5 or 6), however until today we've always supported people using Java VMs as far back as version 1.1 (specifically for those still using the Microsoft VM)     As part of the upgrade, we'd like to be able to serve a web page to people using out-of-date VMs telling them which versions we now support and where they can download them from. Ideally we want to do this    without    having to serve a Java 1.1 applet first just to determine the JVM version.     Answers to either of the following (with code samples if possible) would be appreciated:     Question 1: is it possible to determine the JVM in a script on the server using information from the HTTP headers?     Question 2: is it possible to determine the information on the client using just JavaScript?  
  Q1: no     Q2: yes, but I don't know how portable that is:       That outputs a table of all plugins, versions should be contained. I think you have to loop over all the plugins, check if 'java' is contained in the name and then parse the version from description...  
Up-voted for the short, but sweet, answer to Q1 - that's what I thought. Unfortunately, Q2 doesn't appear to port as far as IE6 - mine's getting navigator.plugins.length as 0 :-(
A german website says it is supported in JavaScript 1.1, Netscape 3.0, Opera 5.12, Firefox 1.0, Konqueror 3.1, Safari 1 and higher and (exactly) IE for Mac 5.0 :-(. Perhaps any of all these JS libs has something for that...
  There is a deployment toolkit for doing this sort of thing.     Serving an applet shouldn't be too bad. It can either be a 1x1 pixel bug, or use your normal applet with a small 1.1 class that forwards the applet lifecycle methods if it can load your 1.5 code.     Nobody should still be using 1.1. It hasn't had security bugs fixed in it for years.  
We actually already serve an applet to determine the VM as we have two versions, one of which works around bugs in MS JVM (but doesn't work on Sun) and one of which is the other way round. The powers that be think this approach is too clunky going forward, so I'm tasked with looking for another way.
Oh, and just because nobody *should* be using 1.1, this does not mean none of our customers *are* using 1.1, unfortunately :-(
  This script seems to do the trick on all major browsers:       http://www.pinlady.net/PluginDetect/JavaDetect.htm    
Seems quite complex considering it might run an applet anyway for its "NOTF" approach; we might as well just go straight to that option. Plus I'm not sure I want to run code written by someone who uses the idiom "Java142Installed = Java142Status == 1 ? true : false"
Well, I have to admit I didn't go beyond testing it actually worked.
  I think the    deployment toolkit    might do what you want.          Use the runApplet() function in deployJava to ensure that a minimum Java Runtime Environment is available on a client machine before launching the applet.     
Looks like the deployment toolkit is the "proper" way forward, so I've accepted this answer as it included a link to the appropriate page (sorry, tackline - I know you suggested the toolkit first, but them's the breaks). Meanwhile, we'll be using our tried-and-tested launch an applet approach!
How can I get stock quotes using Google Finance API?
  I'm looking for access to financial data from Google services.      I found    this URL    that gets the stock data for Microsoft.     What are all the possible parameters that Google allows for this kind of HTTP request? I'd like to see all the different information that I could get.  
How did you find that URL?
You can easily get Google Finance data via YQL which is simple and REST based. An example can be found here: http://www.jarloo.com/google-finance-and-yql/
This is a great question, are there more answers that are up to date?
@Timmyc- The `client=ig` parametet leads me to believe this is/was used for an iGoogle widget. Just a guess though.
Note that if your application is [for public consumption, using the Google Finance API is against Google's terms of service](https://groups.google.com/d/msg/google-finance-apis/O8fjsgnamHE/-ZKSjif4yDIJ). @timmyc: the ` &client ` parameter isn't necessary. http://finance.google.com/finance/info?q=NASDAQ%3aMSFT works.
  There's a whole API for managing portfolios. *Link removed. Google no longer provides an developer API for this.     Getting stock quotes is a little harder.  I found one article where someone got stock quotes using Google Spreadsheets.  Here is    another example of that   .     You can also use the    gadgets    but I guess that's not what you're after.     The API you mention is interesting but doesn't seem to be documented (as far as I've been able to find anyway).     Here is some information on    historical prices   , just for reference sake.  
There is an undocumented API from google you can use to get stock info much easier as it's REST based and doesn't require authentication. Here is a C# example http://www.jarloo.com/google-stock-api/
Note: The Google Finance API has been officially deprecated as of May 26, 2011 and will be shut down on October 20, 2012.
This answer is mostly off-topic. The answer below it is the correct one.
  Perhaps of interest, the Google Finance API documentaton includes    a section detailing how to access different parameters via JavaScript   .     I suppose the JavaScript API might be a wrapper to the JSON request you mention above... perhaps you could check which HTTP requests are being sent.  
no longer available
  I found this site helpful.       http://benjisimon.blogspot.com/2009/01/truly-simple-stock-api.html       It links to an API yahoo seems to offer that is very simple and useful.     For instance:       http://finance.yahoo.com/d/quotes.csv?s=GOOG+AAPL   f=snl1       Full details here:       http://www.gummy-stuff.org/Yahoo-data.htm    
  Here is an example that you can use. Havent got Google Finance yet, but Here is the Yahoo Example. You will need the    HTMLAgilityPack    , Which is awesome. Happy Symbol Hunting.     Call the procedure by using    YahooStockRequest(string Symbols);       Where Symbols = a comma-delimited string of symbols, or just one symbol    
  The    Google Finance Gadget API    has been officially    deprecated since October 2012   , but as of April 2014, it's still active:       http://www.google.com/finance/info?q=NASDAQ:GOOG       http://www.google.com/finance/info?q=CURRENCY:GBPUSD       http://finance.google.com/finance/info?client=ig   q=AAPL,YHOO       You can also get charts:    https://www.google.com/finance/getchart?q=YELP         Note that if your application is for    public consumption, using the Google Finance API is against Google's terms of service   .       Check    google-finance-get-stock-quote-realtime    for the complete code in python   
This led me exactly to what I was looking for!  Thanks.
But I cannot get the volume traded through this URL, Can you help me out, if I need the volume details too
@DanDascalescu Thanks Dan.  Looks like it was just down when I was checking it.  Comment deleted.
  Building upon the shoulders of giants...here's a one-liner I wrote to zap all of Google's current stock data into local Bash shell variables:       Then you will have variables like $GF_last $GF_open $GF_volume etc. readily available. Run env or see inside /tmp/stockprice.tmp.log       So for    stock="FBM"       /tmp/stockprice.tmp.log     (and your environment) will contain:    
Can I use the URL for a Real Time stock quote?
Mostly yes. Compare `GF_trade_time_utc` to the current time/date and you be the judge.
Thanks for your answer, but here the volume is not coming in the json, is there any other way or URL to get the volume traded?
  The problem with Yahoo and Google data is that it violates terms of service if you're using it for commercial use. When your site/app is still small it's not biggie, but as soon as you grow a little you start getting cease and desists from the exchanges. A licensed solution example is FinancialContent:    http://www.financialcontent.com/json.php   or    Xignite    
  This is no longer an active API for google, you can try Xignite, although they charge:    http://www.xignite.com    
Do you have any experience using their services? How much do they charge?
  The simplest way as you have explained is this    link    this is for  'Dow Jones Industrial Average'       Link 2    is for 'NASDAQ-100'     and for all related to NASDAQ    link 3         I think this should be it, else you want same in JSON notations the same as Microsoft     Please refer this    old post    I think this will help,     Update:     To know the details of volume and other details, I have created a vbscript that is using IE object to fetch details from the link, and alerts the content in the particular id(Create a .vbs file and run it..       this will alert the values from page like this       I am sure this will help..  
Thanks a lot for your answer. But I need the realtime data in json along with the volume traded, is there any rest services?
Please refer this for details on realtime, generally this links provide reatime data with some exception.. https://www.google.com/googlefinance/disclaimer/#realtime
Thanks once again bro, This one was really helpful, but still how can I get the volume information?
Its if you are aware of VBA or VBS on the page(https://www.google.com/finance?q=INDEXNASDAQ%3ANDX &sq =NASDAQ &sp =2 &ei =B3UoUsiIH5DIlgPEsQE) the element's id is 'market-data-div' that div contains 2 more divs and the second div has the table that contains volume `   759.30M   ` like this. If want more help please post some code of your work or fiddle will do.
No Sir, Dont have any idea of VBA or VBS, but will check this definitely, Can you provide me the URL, which results in the realtime stock quote along with volume information?
I will create a fiddle for a with a js file which will alert you give me some time
Sure Sir, Thanks a lot and that will be of great help.. :-) god bless you
@SashiKant I have updated my answer, Please find the VBS code that works well on windows PC enjoy :)
Thanks a lot brother.. :-)
You are always welcome :) StackOverflow is there to help us all :)
  Try with this:   http://finance.google.com/finance/info?client=ig   q=NASDAQ:GOOGL       It will return you all available details about the mentioned stock.     e.g. out put would look like below:     // [ { "id": "694653" ,"t" : "GOOGL" ,"e" : "NASDAQ" ,"l" : "528.08" ,"l_fix" : "528.08" ,"l_cur" : "528.08" ,"s": "0" ,"ltt":"4:00PM EST" ,"lt" : "Dec 5, 4:00PM EST" ,"lt_dts" : "2014-12-05T16:00:14Z" ,"c" : "-14.50" ,"c_fix" : "-14.50" ,"cp" : "-2.67" ,"cp_fix" : "-2.67" ,"ccol" : "chr" ,"pcls_fix" : "542.58" } ]     You can have your company stock symbol at the end of this URL to get its details:    
  Agree with Pareshkumar's answer. Now there is a python wrapper    googlefinance    for the url call.      Install googlefinance       It is easy to get current stock price:       Google finance is a source that provides real-time stock data. There are also other APIs from yahoo, such as    yahoo-finance   , but they are delayed by 15min for NYSE and NASDAQ stocks.  
Playing a sound notification using Google Web Toolkit
  Is it possible to play a sound notification using Google Web Toolkit which will be translated to Javascript? Thanks.  
  Yes it's possible,    scriptaculous (a js library) has a sound.js    which is an example of how to do it. The    source    is under 50 lines of code.  
  Try using this library:    http://code.google.com/p/gwt-voices/      
  Since GWT 2.2 you can play audio with:    com.google.gwt.media.client.Audio    class.     API:   http://google-web-toolkit.googlecode.com/svn/javadoc/2.2/com/google/gwt/media/client/Audio.html       Sample:    
where is the `style` folder? Is it in the same directory as the .java file, or is it in the web directory?
@MarioStoilov its the URL, check http://www.gwtproject.org/javadoc/latest/com/google/gwt/media/client/MediaBase.html#setSrc(java.lang.String)
How would I write a Java regex that gets the contents of a   
  I'm trying to integrate analytics into my GWT application. To do this, I'm calling a service that returns a String of HTML that needs to be parsed and eval'ed.      I need a regex that looks for  and grabs either 1) the body of the tag or 2) the contents of the "src" attribute. I want to eval both of these with JavaScript. I'm happy with assuming that if a "src" attribute exists, the body can be ignored.     Thanks,     Matt  
This question is really confusing, Java != JavaScript
I need to do the parsing of HTML with Java. After getting the JavaScript, I'll eval it. Oh, and I'm using GWT, so Java /is/ JavaScript. ;-)
It seems like there's got to be a better way to do what you're trying to do.  What you propose is a very unnatural pairing (regex to find js tag  &  then eval while using GWT)
Someone needs to tag this with 'GWT' or 'Google Web Toolkit'.  Also, please make it more clear in the question that you are using GWT.  Otherwise, this question doesn't make much sense (better ways to do the same thing in a js context).
  To match the body of the tag, you can try something like       which you want to match case-insensitively. Works assuming there is no "" appearing in the actual script body and no ">" in the attributes for the  tag. You can add whitespace globbers to the regexp to make it more robust. Note the use of .*? to make sure the scanning stops at the first closing  tag.     To add the src attribute, you can try       and use the second submatch to get 'src', and third to get the body. Again, you might want to add whitespace globbers.     But would be best off by running the thing through a proper HTML/XML/SGML parser, because regexps can blow up in special cases.  
  You could use something like this:                   The regex uses the lazy star quantifier and should work in most cases but it could certainly be improved upon.       It will match in $1 the attributes of the script tag, and in $2 the body.  You can then check for the    src    attribute in $1 (if it's not empty).  
  How about        to start with. You may need to customize it a bit to        accept the src attribute with single quotes or without quotes.      ignore white between the '   script' and '   '       You also must use the    DOTALL    mode to ensure the    .    captures newlines.  
Your answer won't handle     
Agreed. There are many cases it won't handle (like the type attribute of the script tag). I suggested this as a start to build from.
and it will match everything between first     and last     which wouldn't work nicely when there are multiple scripts on the page
  Must it be a regex? You can use the DOM to obtain such information, here is a trivial example of getting the contents of the BODY tag, you could apply it to whatever you like:     
+1 Yes! Parsing non-regular strings with regular expressions is WRONG!
+1.  I love regex, but use the right tool for the job.  regex is the wrong tool for this job.
While I agree in principle, he's trying to do this via the GWT which uses java to create javascript.
  This seems to do what you want:       That being said, you would probably be better off using something like    Tag Soup    if it is at all possible.  
I'm marking this as the correct answer since it does what I originally wanted. Also, laz provided me with the secondary answer (below) that I needed for the final solution.
Is that correct? I would think the last peren should be inside the     tag like this:   ]*src=['\"]([^'\"]*)['\"][^>]*>|[^>]*>([^ < ]*))    because I believe script tags not specified always with a closing node, not shorthand, so    , never />
You are technically correct, which is the best kind of correct of course, except that HTML in the wild can certainly be malformed and if a browser can render it (or ever did), be assured someone once wrote it that way! Since Matt seems to have controlled the HTML being parsed though, he might not have needed to handle that scenario.
  Thanks for all the great suggestions everyone. I quickly discovered it's not possible to use Java's Regex API in GWT and was able to do what I wanted with JSNI.       Unfortunately, I ran into additional issues as documented in the following thread:       http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit/browse_thread/thread/ac2589369ddec8a3    
I guessing that the call to eval(scripts[i].getAttribute("src")) doesn't not load the URL that src="" points to. It is simply trying to execute the actual URL string as JavaScript. You need to figure out how to load the contents of that URL and eval it.
Ugh, I = I'm and doesn't not = does not
Thanks for the suggestion. It allowed me to solve my problem. Here's the solution I came up with: http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit/msg/0d076f647a4472bc
Are Java Applets unable to communicate with javascript within Firefox on Mac OS?
  I have a java applet running in a browser that is calling some javascript functions and expecting a result from theses functions. This is working with the following configurations :       Internet Explorer     FireFox / Windows     Safari / Mac       BUT It's not working with Firefox on MAC OS     The source of the problem seems to be the win.eval calls that always return null. I tested this with Firefox 3.0.6 on a Mac OS X 10.4.11      A bit of code :        This triggers a java.lang.NullPointerException (exp.toString()) statement). The testfunc javascript function just returns true.     I tried with win.call and got the same result.     My applet tag includes the mayscript and scriptable attributes.             I found the answer thanks to Tristan. Testing his solution I created a really simple test that could work and worked my way to find the culprit. I was sure I did my tests with an empty testfunc() that just returned true, but I probably didn't because in that case it DOES work. The real problem here was that the function called a public method of the applet. Liveconnect doesn't seem to be able to handle that case in Firefox Mac.     Let me give you an example :     Java class :        And the javascript code :       exp will be null in somefunction BECAUSE jsfunc calls the getMyValue() method of the applet. If you remove all calls to properties of the applet you're cool.     To solve my problem I decided to give all the values of the applet that I neeeded as parameters of my javascript function and I'm good now.     That may not be the case always, if the javascript changes the state of the applet ...I was lucky :)  
  Would it work via accessing one of the global objects on the screen? Ergo,     In JavaScript:       In Applet:       That would be my experiment. But I've been calling "window.close()" on FF on Mac OS X, and that still works.  
Calling the function is not the problem, getting the result back is.  With debug statements I can see clearly that the function is executed, but somehow the return value gets lost and I only get "null".
  I haven't used the applet api in a while but if i recall correctly in order to allow an Applet to cann JS code you should enable the attribute mayscript in your applet tag or a param mayscript in the object tag notation.     For communication in the other way JS to Applet you should also use the scriptable attribute or parameter, for example:       This allows your applet to use script functions.    
The mayscript and scriptable attributes are necessary indeed. But I already include them in my applet tag, otherwise it wouldn't work at all with other browsers.
    If you remove all calls to properties of the applet you're cool.       This may happen in other situations as well. I found this page after Googling a similar problem, so I thought I'd add a datapoint. The only difference is that I was using win.call() rather than win.eval().     I had an alert() call in the JavaScript to make sure the call was getting through, and saw what appears to be exactly the same lockup on Firefox 3.0.9, OS X 10.5.6, Java 1.5.0_16. 100% repeatable with Firefox, no problem on Safari (I don't have Windows installed on this box).     When I got rid of the alert() and simply returned a value, the problem went away.      Sooooo... maybe calls into JavaScript time out after a while and simply toss null?    
How to keep the bottom of an SWT Browser widget visible when appending to the HTML content?
  I'm viewing HTML in an SWT Browser widget. I am appending logging messages to the end of the content and would like to keep the bottom visible all the time. Currently, whenever I append text to the content, I first set the new text:       And then I scroll down the Browser widget via JavaScript:       The problem with this is that when I set the text, the widget switches to the top again before scrolling down, so when I append lots of messages quickly, the browser widget is showing the top part most of the time, occasionally flickering when switching to the bottom. This makes it impossible to follow what is being logged at the bottom.     I am aware that I could use a tree viewer and get all the convenience of the Eclipse platform, but there is a Swing version of the app too and both should use the same HTML with CSS presentation.      Ideally I'd like to avoid embedding a Swing component, but if there is one that would allow this, I'd be happy to hear about it. I have tried it with a JEditorPane inside a JScrollPane, appending to the content via the editor kit's read method:       And then scrolling down like this:       This works very smoothly for the standalone Swing app, but embedded in Eclipse it flickers and does not keep up with fast updates of the HTML content.      Right now the only way I can make this work smoothly inside Eclipse is prepending to the Browser widget's content instead of appending, but I'd really prefer adding new messages at the bottom, not at the top.  
  Rewriting the whole HTML content every time seems unnecessarily busy-work, and there may not be a way to prevent some browsers from scrolling to the top each time you redraw the entire page.  Especially if you allow the logs you show to get very long, this will get slower and slower as the log gets longer.     A better solution might be to use JavaScript to append to the page.  You're already using       How about something like this (assuming "   itemID   " is the ID of the    DIV    containing the content):       You have to do the    replaceAll()    and you may need a couple more transformations, depending on your log content.  I've noticed that    browser.execute()    doesn't like it if the script contains newlines, for example, and single quotes in your string needed to be quoted as I show above.  
Thank you, this is much better, even if I set the entire text each time.
Just wanted add that a downside of this is that it does not seem to work on the Mac with a default Browser widget. A workaround is to force Mozilla usage in the Browser widget with the SWT.MOZILLA option, which requires an installed XulRunner (see http://www.eclipse.org/swt/faq.php#howusemozilla).
@Fabian Steeg: You may want to log an SWT bug report about this.
  I would have just added this as a comment, but it wouldn't let me (not enough reputation).  You can ship XUL in a nonstandard location on the mac, by setting a system property.     System.setProperty("org.eclipse.swt.browser.XULRunnerPath", "/fubar/xul/Versions/1.9.0.7/");  
Thanks, this is good to know for the future. In this particular case I ended up not using the browser widget but a tree viewer (for other reasons).
.NET, Java to JavaScript compiler
  I am interested to create a drag-and-drop layout designer using only JavaScript, HTML and CSS. The designer will allow the user to drag the page elements from one place to another (something like    Blogger   's layout designer) to create a site layout. But I don't want to hand code everything in JavaScript, I would prefer to write my application in .NET (preferably) or Java and rely on a compiler to compile it to JavaScript and HTML.      What are the .NET or Java to JavaScript compilers that you have    used and can recommend   ? For Java to JavaScript I know    GWT    is available. What about .NET to JavaScript? Microsoft did come out with    Volta   , but the project seems to be no longer available.   
suggest it as a Google Summer of Code project?
  Look no further, you already mentioned GWT pick that!     It has a very good API and many good applications have use them.      Even JavaScript frameworks like    http://extjs.com/    have GWT support.        I use it for an small JavaScript calendar recently.     To be honest, I don't really like JavaScript that much. Most of the times the errors are hard to track (specially for a non JavaScript guy as me) and the workarounds included some plug-ins for the explorer just to get exactly what a compiler should do. Catch silly error early.     In the other hand I'm very familiar with the Java Programming language, and many of the libraries (if not the most important) such as java.lang and java.util have been ported to GWT.      Plus, the guy who wrote relevant parts of java.util is the same behind GWT (google Joshua Bloch.)   
GWT *could* be a pain in the ass, depending on how the serverside is to be implemented. But it is getting heaps better now in its current iteration.
ExtGWT is a separate project to ExtJS and it's *awful*.  For one, the guy has absolutely no clue when it comes to generics.  Run away.
  Check out Nikhil Khotari's    Script#    project. It allows you to write C# code and compiles it to JavaScript.  
Gee, really? Drive-by-downvoting?
  Also for Java there is    J2S   .          Java2Script (J2S) Pacemaker provides   an Eclipse Java to JavaScript compiler   plugin and an implementation of   JavaScript version of Eclipse Standard   Widget Toolkit (SWT) with other common   utilities, such as java.lang.* and   java.util.*. You can convert your   SWT-base Rich Client Platform (RCP)   into Rich Internet Application (RIA)   by Java2Script Pacemaker.       This means that if you use the SWT IDE (drag and drop) you can then convert the generated code to JS + HTML.  
  I wouldn't hand write any Javascript for UI. This can lead to maintenance disaster. jQuery is what I am using but I still wouldn't use it to write full UI Javascript code.    ExtJS     is also another good option if you plan to write in Javascript. In general what I am saying here is that it's so much easier to main in Java/C# than Javascript. Check out    cappuccino framework    and    Atlas   . Never used GWT.    Script#    is similar to GWT but for ASP.NET framework. Also depends on the requirement, if your site is public facing then RIA isn't a good option. It's all about which extreme end you pursuit (hand written and web standard, or RAD or libraries like jQuery/ExtJS as the middle option).  
      Script#    has already been mentioned. It hasn't been updated since August 2008.       Milescript    is another, but also has seen very little for 6 months.       Extsharp    for the Ext library. Adds Ext support for Script#       Javascript compiler to Java    (going the wrong way for you)       Java to script    Eclipse plugin       My issues with Script# (a known issue) is it doesn't support jQuery yet. However it comes with a very lightweight library to tie in with the .NET framework, in Nikhil's sscorlib.js file and ssfx.core.js files. And also has support for lots of other Javascript APIs (mostly Microsoft, seeing as he is in the ASP.NET team).     I'd love to see a Script# extension for jQuery (I'm thinking about writing it if it's easy enough). As it stands, most don't provide full compilation yet but they're certainly getting there.       Update   : I wrote a small extension to enable JQuery support Script# a few months ago. The project can be found    here   .  
Last time I went to the Script# site, I saw that jQuery is on the roadmap for the next release of Script# (due some time in 2009).
  Check out    Axial   , a .NET to JavaScript converter that works well in ASP.NET. It supports WebForms, jQuery and canvas. It's not very mature, but it's worth a look.  
  I'm going to second the use of    GWT   . I've used it for several projects and, when used in combination with a modern editor like    Eclipse    or    IDEA   , it really makes the    mess    manageable.     It's important to note that not only does it allow you to write in Java and have that transformed into optimized and    obfuscated    Javascript it also comes with a    substantial subset    of the core Java API. In addition to this they provide lots of additional classes for doing things like parsing and working with    JSON    and    XML    and communicating with a server via    asynchronous HTTP   . You can check out the    docs    to get an idea of what else they offer.     Another feature that might be of special interest to you for implementing drag and drop functionality is it's integration with javascript libraries like    Ext     and    scriptaculous   . Either through pre-built    interfaces    or via    JSNI    
    http://jsc.sourceforge.net/    is a C# to JavaScript, Java, Flash and PHP compiler.  
  Check this open source Java project    http://st-js.org   it produces clean javascript code that is clean, easy to read and easy to debug.  
  JscriptSuite offers another free .NET to Javascript compiler. There is a big difference to Saltarelle (jsc, SharpKit# etc.). Developer write down and debug only C# code (or any other .NET langauge), like in GWT. Javascript will be generated f r deployment only.  
how to get rid of double-scrollbars on internal frame of GWT app
  As part of porting a legacy application to GWT, we need to embed our existing JSPs inside of our GWT app.  Many of these pages are quite long, resulting in a double scrollbar- one for window of the main app, and a second one for the content of the frame.  I'd like to get rid of the internal scrollbar, and just have the normal browser scrollbar on the main window.  If I could get the height of the rendered content (the whole scrollable area) I could just set the height on my frame to match this, but I don't see where I would get that information.       EDIT   : to clarify, GWT is the main app navigation, and uses iframes (   com.google.gwt.user.client.ui.Frame   ) to embed the legacy content. What I am trying to do is make the page big enough so that the enclosed frame does not need scrollbars; only the host page will scroll.  If there is any way to determine the "scrollable area" of a frame I could dynamically resize the main page to fit it.         2nd EDIT   : I ended up more or less following Jack M's suggestion.  But instead of using HTTPRequest I used the RequestBuilder, which makes it easy as pie.  I wanted to go this route of grabbing the HTML manually rather than using a frame from the beginning, but was stymied by having to "fix up" the URLs in the hosted pages; there are many instances of relative URLs that have to be patched up in order to work if the user "clicks through" the hosted HTML.  Making history navigation work with this is also a bit of a pain.  Once I clean my code up a bit I will try to post it somewhere where folks can get at it, because I'm sure this must be a common use case for people migrating existing apps to GWT.  
  May be it makes sense to embed GWT into old JSP? Place    div id="for.gwt"/    somewhere on the JSP, and import JS.      It's not clear how you embed JSP into GWT, sorry.     Would something like document.body.clientHeight within the frame help you, I wonder?  
Inside my GWT app I create a Frame object.  Then I do frame.setUrl("/path/to/legacy_content")- so the browser essentially loads a new page into the frame.  The legacy content happens to be generated by a JSP.
its possible to eliminate the scrollbars, but its not possible to make the page "fit" the frame, which is how I understand what you actually want. If you really want to make the scrollbar disappear, just set the frame's overflow to none.
    Read this, it will most likely be a solution to your problem       It explains how you can get the size of the window and manage it's scrolling in JavaScript.   
  The easiest way that I can think of to fully solve this problem is to not use a Frame element, but rather an    HTMLPanel    combined with an    HTTPRequest   .  This approach adds complexity with the RPC call, but an    HTMLPanel    is a simple      div      that has content within it.  As such, it can expand and/or contact with your JSP content.  The end result would be a seamless integration of the two pages.     Google's own    example on JSON    has good examples for making an HTTP request.  
How do I limit my date range on an Ajax Calendar?
  I am using the ajax calendar tool.  I like its function, but I would like to restrict the user to an option of selecting a time frame starting with Today, and ending with 6 months prior.  How do I do this?  
  Which ajax calendar tool are you using. There are about 7000 out there. I've seen the ones from Yahoo (YUI) and a few others that take configurations for start and end dates where the user has to select something in between.     If you're using a calendar that doesn't have that, you could add it by checking the date after the user selects and checking if that is outside your range. Then display a message and leave the calendar visable for them to pick again. (Might be easier to switch to a calendar that already supports this though)  
  You can use asp:comaparevalidator to check selected date.  
  If you're using the asp.net calendar control, use the DayRender event to check each day against the date limit you wish to impose.    
Seems like something I should be looking at.  How would I add this to my html page?
Java equivalent to JavaScript's encodeURIComponent that produces identical output?
  I've been experimenting with various bits of Java code trying to come up with something that will encode a string containing quotes, spaces and "exotic" Unicode characters and produce output that's identical to JavaScript's    encodeURIComponent    function.     My torture test string is:    "A" B   "       If I enter the following JavaScript statement in Firebug:         Then I get:       Here's my little test Java program:         This program outputs:       Close, but no cigar! What is the best way of encoding a UTF-8 string using Java so that it produces the same output as JavaScript's    encodeURIComponent   ?       EDIT:    I'm using Java 1.4 moving to Java 5 shortly.  
  Using the javascript engine that is shipped with Java 6:       Output: %22A%22%20B%20%c2%b1%20%22     The case is different but it's closer to what you want.  
Ah, sorry...I should have mentioned in the question that I'm on Java 1.4 moving to Java 5 shortly!
Iiips. I don't have a solution for you then :-).
If javascript is the only solution you can try Rhino, but it's too much just for this small problem.
Even if he was using Java 6, I think this solution is WAY over the top.  I don't think he's looking for a way to directly invoke the javascript method, just a way to emulate it.
Maybe. I think the easiest solution would be to write your own escape function if you can't find anything that does the trick for you. Just copy some method from the StringEscapeUtils class (Jakarta Commons Lang) and reimplement it with your needs.
@Ravi Wallau very nice!
This actually works, and if you're not worried about performance... I think it's good.
  Looking at the implementation differences, I see that:       MDC on    encodeURIComponent()     :       literal characters (regex representation):    [-a-zA-Z0-9._*~'()!]           Java 1.5.0 documentation on    URLEncoder     :       literal characters (regex representation):    [-a-zA-Z0-9._*]       the space character    " "    is converted into a plus sign    "+"   .        So basically, to get the desired result, use    URLEncoder.encode(s, "UTF-8")    and then do some post-processing:       replace all occurrences of    "+"    with    "%20"       replace all occurrences of    "%xx"    representing any of    [~'()!]    back to their literal counter-parts    
I wish you had written "Replace all occurrences of "%xx" representing any of [~'()!] back to their literal counter-parts" in some simple language. :( my tiny head is not able to understand it .......
@Shailendra `[~'()!]` means `"~"` or `"'"` or `"("` or `")"` or `"!"`. :) I recommend learning the regex basics, too, though. (I also didn't expand on that since at least two other answers show the respective Java code.)
  This is the class I came up with in the end:    
Thanks for sharing the code! :-) +1
Adding a tip. In Android 4.4 I found that we also need to replace `%0A` which means a return key in Android input, or it will crash the js.
  I came up with another implementation documented at,    http://blog.sangupta.com/2010/05/encodeuricomponent-and.html   . The implementation can also handle Unicode bytes.  
  I came up with my own version of the encodeURIComponent, because the posted solution has one problem, if there was a + present in the String, which should be encoded, it will converted to a space.      So here is my class:    
Thanks for a good solution! The others look totally... inefficient, IMO. Perhaps it'd be even better without the BitSet on today's hardware. Or two hard-coded longs for 0...127.
`URLEncoder.encode("+", "UTF-8");` yields `"%2B"`, which is the proper URL encoding, so your solution is, my apologies, totally unnecessary. Why on earth `URLEncoder.encode` doesn't turn spaces into `%20` is beyond me.
  I have found PercentEscaper class from google-http-java-client library, that can be used to implement encodeURIComponent quite easily.       PercentEscaper from google-http-java-client javadoc     google-http-java-client home    
How to create a photo gallery with slideshow effect of the images placed in server folder using jsp/servlet/javascript
  I need to create slideshow of the images which are in server.These images would be changing as the user uploads. I need this using jsp/javascript/servlet/ajax  
Please explain your problem a little more detailed. Is it with the slide show at all or don't you how to handle the uploads? Should a open/running (inside a browser) slide show change when user uploads take place?
  Generally when the page loads, the slideshow code already has a list of the available files. It would need to use AJAX to poll the server periodically to determine if this list has changed (a user had uploaded a file). Typically you'd just replace the array or string holding the list of files in the AJAX call.     The server-side code just needs to supply the list of files in a folder in a format the slideshow expects.     Here's a    collection of different slideshows    you can grab and modify for this purpose.  
What happened to Rhino? Is it still under active development?
  The last release was in 2008-03-06. What happened to it? Is it still under active development? Are there any replacements?  
  This question might better be asked at the relevant newsgroup: mozilla.dev.tech.js-engine. Or by mail to one of the responsible developers as    mentioned at the Mozilla site   .     However, if you found out please post the answer here. I'm interested too.  
  Slightly modified version of Rhino (1.6r2) is    part of Java 6    and on top of that from what I've tested Rhino is very much feature complete so there really isn't anything left to develop onwards, apparently it's also quite bug-free also.     I'd say Rhino is one of those rare libraries which are actually done.  
  According to a post last week at    http://groups.google.com/group/mozilla.dev.tech.js-engine.rhino/topics      
JavaScript (Rhino) use library or include other scripts
  In JDK6, is there a way to load multiple scripts, each in a file, and have the one script reference a method of another script?  Sort of like "include"?  
  As long as you use the same scope to execute each file, they will be able to reference functions and variables from previously executed files.  
Big help, thanks
  I think you're after the    load() method/property    of Rhino's global object/scope       This will load a javascript source file, similar to how include/require will in PHP.  Once you load a file, you'll be able to call and function or use any object defined in the loaded file.     This is how things work when you're using the Rhino shell, which is the only context I know (your question mentioned the Java SDK, which is outside my area of experience)  
Is this available outside of the Rhino shell?
Not sure, that's not my pay rate. (updated the question to reflect that)
  if you happen to be trying to do this within ant, you might see this error:       but you can sidestep it:    
The >>''+ < <  is of major importance here!
  A real-life example this time, i.e. running the    esprima    parser with Rhino 1.7R4.       After running this code, you should see the output as follows:       So indeed, the trick is in reusing the    globalScope    object.  
How to Prevent an Applet from Unloading across web pages?
  I have a large applet that takes some 40 seconds to initialize (cabs are cached so ignore download time for this question).      The issue is, if the user goes to Page A which launches the applet (single window) and then navigates to page B, the applet is unloaded. If the user goes back to Page A, they incur the 40 seconds init time once again.      I'd like to be able to launch the applet, incurring the 40 seconds init time once and only once. The applet needs to reside inside a single browser window (the same window as my web application). In other words, I cannot launch the applet in a popup.      Does anyone have any creative ideas around how to prevent the applet unloading?   
  Put the Applet in a frame that doesn't unload, or prevent the user from going to another page in the web page that contains the Applet.  
  The only option would be to put you content in an iframe that encompasses your whole document and use absolute positionning for the applet.       With a css like this one:       There are MANY drawbacks:       The applet will always be positionned at the same place, no matter the page     You will suffer to get the iframe full width and full height, especially in IE     It's possible you will also suffer to have the applet showing properly (an object on top of an iframe, I can't imagine what troubles you'll run into)     The applet will stay if your user click to a link leading outside of your site unless you set a target for the link (ie, target='top' or target='__blank')    
If I did this, the browser URL would never change from page to page. Not really what I'm looking for.
  I thought maybe there'd be a way to popup a tiny browser window and have the applet load in that, then using Javascript somehow pull in the applet from the smaller window into the larger browser.      I don't think I can manipulate the DOM in this way though.      Any other ideas?   
  You could show a warning, this way:       This works in allmost every browser, but you cannot change the text surrounding your text.  
Browser Java Plugin Detection
  What is the preferred method to determine if the Sun Java Plugin is installed in the browser?  
    java deployment toolkit      
this doesn't works always. (1) If its disabled in firefox it says not installed. (2) on lion os x, even when its disabled in all browsers, it tells installed
  This isn't an answer for your exact question but is offered as a solution for determining the browser itself. Don't be too harsh, this is really old code that I wrote some time ago.    
  You may also consider    PluginDetect    script.  
Why is Java giving me an IllegalArgumentException?
  I'm using dwr and spring and I get this error:       I found nothing helpful on Google, do you know why I'm getting this error?    
That is neither valid nor well-formed XML.
Where is Java getting involved in this?  This is Javascript.
  Found. Because the version of the DWR's jar did not match the version of DWR's schema  
+1 for answering your own question
Returning a host object in Rhino
  What is the best way to return an host object to JavaScript in Rhino? I have two classes like this:       It works, in the sense that I can call the toString method, but the member object doesn't behave as I would expect:       If I call    Object.prototype.toString    though, it does say it's a Member object:       I've tried calling    m.setPrototype    and    Context.javaToJS   .  
                        Edit   : The method can also be written:       which will call Member.jsConstructor; there may be other differences as well.  
Thanks, that's perfect.
How can I handle Java object serialization with JavaScript?
    I have serialized the Java object located on the server side and sent it to the client       How can I deserialize that XML string into the Java object using JavaScript and execute the methods of person class in the client side using the JavaScript?     Please help me with syntax or any guidelines.  
Is this not a duplicate of your previous questions ? I'm getting a distinct sense of deja vu here
  XML is presented as a DOM tree to JavaScript  
ok, how does the javascript deserialize that recieved XML into Java object.since i want to deserialize into java object so that it could be executed in client side JVM once instantiating that java object
What you're describing here sounds different than your question.
why do you need JavaScript do deserialize the objects? why don't you simply use a Java-to-Java connection?
  You can't run Java methods with Javascript. The only thing you could do is to read the properties of the Java object - this is the only information that is serialized in the XML file. It is very    easy    to read XML with javascript.     To be able to serialize a Java object, send it to a client and execute Java code there a totally different architecture would be needed. At first you need Java running on the client too. Then you would need to employ a method like RMI.  
does     satisfy meet my requirements sir?
Yes, but you still need a different serializing technique and dealing with security issues. The applet would probably need to be signed in order to be able to communicate with the RMI server.
This seems overly complicated.  What he really needs is to make his Java server provide a web service and then he needs to call that web service using AJAX.
  You can call Java methods on the client side using JavaScript by using SOAP.  This    article    explains how to create a WSDL web service that can be accessed by any SOAP client that supports WSDL.     You can then call the Java WSDL service using AJAX in JavaScript (if you can find a JS library that implements SOAP and WSDL).     Alternatively, you can write a simplified front-end to the Java WSDL service in PHP using PHP's built-in SoapClient library.  Make it take some simple GET arguments and return JSON or XML.  You could then trivially access the PHP web service using AJAX via jQuery (or an equivalent AJAX-supporting library).  
+1 XStream supports JSON out of the box.
  If you're going for an applet and want to make Javascript calls from Java, checkout the    LiveConnect    with the JSObject wrapper class. This way you can excute javascript functions inside the applet (and pass information in between);       Look into the IRIS applictation made for Flickr, it's open source and uses this technique. The Belgian JUG Parleys have a speech from a convention covering some of this,    You can find it here   .  
Detecting EOF / TCP teardown using Java sockets from Javascript
  I'm creating a Java socket in Javascript, sending an HTTP request and receiving a response correctly but I seem to be unable to detect an EOF or the server closing the socket at the end. What am I doing wrong? The problem is we never exit the outermost while loop - the server stops transmitting and (presumably) closes its end of the connection, yet receiver.read() never returns -1 and all the socket methods return state consistent with the socket still being connected.    
  Wouldn't the this:       be better? in lieu of the first while( receiver.available()) ?  
Seems a bit redundant - available() is defined as returning the number of bytes of data available to read without blocking, so would return 0 after EOF. Tried it anyway just in case; doesn't fix the problem.
Or do you mean in place of the outermost while? Data being available to read without blocking is independent of whether the server has closed the socket - there could be pauses in transmission, and the OS could have buffered input data. So we must test both separately.
No, I meant the inner while, but your first comment is right: I'm wrong.
  Ok. What's the value of eof when the code reaches this comment?         // at this point response does contain the expected HTTP response     What's the symptom? I assume it's an infinite loop?  
eof is still 0 at that point (otherwise we'd exit the outermost while() correctly and I'd not be posting this). Question edited - hopefully the problem is clearer now?
  OK, further research suggests there is no non-blocking way to discover whether the remote side has closed a socket. However, it is possible to achieve this using NIO channels:    
  When the end of the stream is reached, available() returns 0, so in your code, you never read the -1  
Right. But read() will block until either EOF is reached or there is more data, and Javascript is single-threaded so we don't want to issue a read without knowing for certain we have data to read. And available() can return 0 during transmission, so we can't use that to test for EOF.
Process the file before uploading it
  I got a form with SWFUpload. Files uploaded to the server are converted server-side (video being compressed, images being resized etc)     Question is - can i delegate some of the functionality to client-side (like image resizing), to save some bandwidth for user.  
  Video compression via Javascript would probably slow the browser so much that it wouldn't be bandwidth savings and if anything would probably annoy the end user.  
Thanks, very valid point. Though it doesn't have to be javascript compression. Maybe some process, just initiated by javascript?
Rhino: restrict Java packages that can be accessed from JavaScript
  When embedding a JavaScript interpreter (Rhino) into a Java application (to be able to script that application), how would one go about restricting the Java packages that are available to scripts? For example, only "java.lang.*" should be accessible.  
  A method for blocking access to certain packages and classes (including through reflection) in Rhino is described    here   . The important interface is    ClassShutter    which provides access control for Rhino's LiveConnect support.  
Ironically, the link to codeutopia.net about blocking access is returning 403 Forbidden for me
  how about just saying:      java = undefined;  com = undefined; Packages = undefined;     in an initial script which is loaded first.  
Interesting approach, probably works if you want to turn off *all* access to Java (not just specific packages). On the other hand, you could probably still do `obj.getClass().forName("a.b.c.TheClass").newInstance()` for any object that you have in the interpreter scope.
@Thilo no if your objects are javascript objects (which is what you should do )
Tools for coding conventions and analyzing HTML, CSS, Javascript client side code
  I use various code checkers for Java development but I haven't used one for HTML,. CSS, Javascript.     Do any exist.  That flag bad practices or similar tool.  
Please accept an answer.
  Firebug with the YSlow addon from Yahoo is pretty effective at pointing out your inefficiencies.     Also try the web developer addon and hitting ctrl+shift+a - it'll load your    local    code straight into the w3c validator.      Read up on 508C compliance - you can't test for it but it's good to know.   
  W3C has a    Markup Validation Service    for validating (X)HTML.     Also, W3C has tools:       For    CSS       For    Atom     RSS    feeds       And    JSLint    is a tool for checking your JavaScript.  
  Do you mean lint-like tools?     JavaScript           JavaScript Lint    looks like it might be useful.          With JavaScript Lint, you can check all your JavaScript source code for common mistakes without actually running the script or opening the web page.           JavaScript Lint holds an advantage over competing lints because it is based on the JavaScript engine for the Firefox browser. This provides a robust framework that can not only check JavaScript syntax but also examine the coding techniques used in the script and warn against questionable practices.             JSLint    is the same sort of thing.          JSLint takes a JavaScript source and scans it. If it finds a problem, it returns a message describing the problem and an approximate location within the source. The problem is not necessarily a syntax error, although it often is.       JSLint looks at some style conventions as well as structural problems. It does not prove that your program is correct. It just provides another set of eyes to help spot problems.           HTML         HTML::Lint   , a Perl module (   perldocs    and    example   )       W3 Validator         CSS         CSSCheck    (although it hasn't been updated since 2005)       W3 validator for CSS      
+1 for JSLint. It is developed and maintained by Douglas Crockford, a renowned Javascript guru.
    js2-mode for Emacs    will catch and highlight some common Javascript errors while you're editing your code.  It's not as thorough as the external lint tools, but it's a lot more immediate in its feedback.  
    Firebug    with    CodeBurner    gives you reference material for your HTML and CSS. You can lookup HTML elements, attributes, and CSS properties quickly without leaving the page.  
Good Ajax framework for Java EE
  I'm relatively new to Java EE and I'm in need of a framework that will simplify AJAX for me.     At the moment I have code that uses the dojo toolkit to draw a graph, but I'd like to have the graph updatable via AJAX. is there a good framework that allows me to do Ajax call backs and insert and run javascript into a page?     If so is there a good tutorial on how to use this framework?     My only experience with Ajax is using Telerik under ASP.Net.  
    Dojo does AJAX too   .     Normally I'd recommend    jQuery    for this kind of thing but you're already using Dojo so you should probably use that. The two can be used together however, if desired.  
  There are some JSF component libraries that got more or less ajax support.    ICEfaces    for example, makes all the standard components ajax'ish and offers server push techniques. Check out the    jsfmatrix    to get an overview.  
Launching a desktop application from a web site
  Is it feasible to launch an application via a browser / URL?  What are the options for doing this?     I know the way to do it with IE and Windows (which usually doesn't work). Ideally, I would like this to be browser independent.     Our application is RCP, so in theory Java Web Start could work, we would just have to do some significant changes to how we deliver our application to users, which I would like to avoid. Our web server code is currently all Java if that makes a difference.      I pretty much gave up on this until I clicked a url on Apple's site, which in turn launched iTunes.     How does Apple do that?  
  If this is OS independent, then you can't rely on any specific program being available. What kind of program would you want to launch anyway?  
  iTunes    registers itself as a protocol handler    for custom    itms://    and    itmss://    protocols. When you hit a URL with that protocol - after a step of indirection on Apple's web servers, in this case - iTunes launches to handle it, much like your browser launches to handle    http://    URLs or your email program launches to handle    mailto:    URLs.     This isn't "cross-platform", per se, but it does work on every platform out there, as URL handlers exist and do the same thing everywhere.     It has the disadvantage of only working if the application is already installed, which is why you may want to have a splash page that instructs people to install the application if necessary.  
  Silverlight 3 and Adobe Air will let you launch applications outside the browser.  
Is ext js compatible with .jsp, java backend?
  Is ext js compatible with .jsp, java backend?  
  In short, yes, but see the following article, in terms for ease of use integration (tag library) wise:       http://raibledesigns.com/rd/entry/ext_js_tag_library       and the referenced article:       http://blog.james-carr.org/2008/01/22/making-extjs-more-accessible-to-java-developers/    
so, its yes. k, thanks.
  Ext JS is a javascript library. It exists at the client side of the browser. So it doesn't matter whether you use PHP, JSP or ASP.Net, as long as a browser supports javascript, ExtJS will work there.  
  Perhaps a better way of understanding your lack of knowledge is to ask why or what is so special about javascript they would mean a java backend would not work...     Google "json"...   
  I strongly recommend taking a look at Grails. It lives in the java world, and plays extremely nice together with ExtJS. For example, you probably will have to generate and parse a lot of JSON between server and ExtJS client, and Grails does that as if it was a language built-in.  
Which mechanism may be used to access Java methods which conflict with JavaScript keywords?
  I've a Javascript source that uses a Java class that defines a "delete" method (using jdk6 scripting). Since delete is a keyword, I cannot invoke that method.      In JavaFX script any sequence of characters enclosed in    > is treated as a lexical identifier. So you can use "insert", that is a keyword, as an identifier:       Javascript provides a way to protect keywords?  
  In javascript you would do:    
How to check whether JavaScript is enabled in client browser using Java code
  can anyone help me in trying to check whether JavaScript is enabled in client browser using Java code.  
  A simple thing would be to do a call back from the page, such as an AJAX call. I don't think there's any other way to determine this, at least not universally.  
  Are you trying to do this server-side or on the client in an applet?     If a browser does not support javascript (or has it turned off), it's highly unlikely they will have support for Java applets.  
  If a form submit is performed, you can put a hidden input in the form and fill out its value with javascript (from OnSubmit) and check that on the server side.  
  Assuming you're writing a Java web application, one technique that I've used successfully is to have the first page that's accessed   typically a login form   write a session cookie when the page loads. Then have the Java code that the form submits to check for the existence of that cookie.     On the client:       On the server:    
  In yourform for you can put code like this:       The parameter should only be submitted if the browser has scripts turned off. In your Java applications you can check it like so:    
I like this idea...but is it a cross-browser solution? It seems like something IE6 would love to mess up.
Why do you say that? Have you tried it?
  If you have PHP support just copy and paste the code below.       wish you a good luck and don't forget to make your code open  
JSP or JavaScript equivalent to PHP's $_SERVER["HTTP_HOST"]?
  I've go an absolute URL in my JavaScript that I have hard coded for window.location.     I don't want to have to change this every time I am testing my app. In PHP I would have handled this by testing the $_SERVER["HTTP_HOST"] variable to find out what server I am on, and adjust accordingly. However, I'm not as familiar with Java and am wondering if it has a similar method? Or if maybe even JavaScript had a similar method?     The code is as follows:       What I would like to do is:       In PHP I would have just done this:       Any ideas? I suppose I'm operating under the assumption that you have to do an absolute URL to change the location of the current window in JavaScript. If there is another way to change the window location in JavaScript without an absolute URL, please feel free to offer that as well.     Thanks in advance...  
  You really should have search for this but in JSP it's :    
  Javascript:    
  The location object    has several properties   , and the one you'd want is    hostname   .     Or, you can optionally just use a root-relative URL and just set the    pathname    property and not mess with the host business at all!    
  What you need is:       An example:    
  Maybe this could help.     It will replace any words you want by anything or nothing. It will work for your request too.    
Difference between class(java) and closure(javascript)?
  I don't understand how closure is more powerful than class. It looks like I can achieve the same behavior of closure using class. Any help would be appreciated  
Can you provide a link for the statement that one or the other paradigm is more powerful? Please also define what you mean by "powerful".
  A    closure    and a    class    are two very different things.     It is not correct to say 'A    class    is more powerful that a    closure   .' or vise a versa.     They do totally different things.     A    closure    is in a basic sense, a function call that retains the local variable information from the scope it was created.     A    class    is a definition of an object.  The class defines behavior and the contents of instances of the class.  
Doesn't a closure retain the variables from the scope in which it's declared?  (not called, necessarily)
oops. thanks     .
and it should be mentioned that javascript has a prototype system
  I'm not sure what led you to this question, but something you've been told or something you read has severely misled you.     Ignoring language altogether, a    closure    and a    class    are completely unrelated structures/conventions in programming.  
syntactically may be, but you can emulate one with the other in java for example, and they are not tooo different from each other when you start thinking about it.
  Closures are poor man's objects / Objects are poor man's closure     Please see:    closures and objects       For the lazy:          The venerable master Qc Na was   walking with his student, Anton.    Hoping to prompt the master into a   discussion, Anton said "Master, I have   heard that objects are a very good   thing - is this true?"  Qc Na looked   pityingly at his student and replied,   "Foolish pupil - objects are merely a   poor man's closures."           Chastised, Anton took his leave from   his master and returned to his cell,   intent on studying closures.  He   carefully read the entire "Lambda: The   Ultimate..." series of papers and its   cousins, and implemented a small   Scheme interpreter with a   closure-based object system.  He   learned much, and looked forward to   informing his master of his progress.           On his next walk with Qc Na, Anton   attempted to impress his master by   saying "Master, I have diligently   studied the matter, and now understand   that objects are truly a poor man's   closures."  Qc Na responded by hitting   Anton with his stick, saying "When   will you learn? Closures are a poor   man's object."  At that moment, Anton   became enlightened.               Anton van Straaten      
thank you for the koan.
Will I become enlightened when I figure out how to pronounce Qc Na?
It sounds like one hand clapping.
@Sebasti nGrignoli - In particular, one that is applauding the felling of a tree in a vacant forest.
  The differences between a class and a closure have been explained by others already. I just wanted to point out that in many places in the Java API where a language that supported them would/could use closures, an anonymous implementation of an interface is used. For instance consider the code below:       In this case the anonymous ActionListener could be said to be acting as a closure, if Java allowed closures, the code might look like this: (using c++0x-esque syntax)       In this trivial case, the main difference between a closure and an anonymous implementation of an interface (AII) is that:       The AII method has stronger type checking than a closure. (Closure systems can be made to have stronger type checking, but in general, they aren't)     The closure syntax requires less typing. This seems to be the main gripe that renders out once you chew on the Java need closures arguments long enough.       I have yet to run into a situation where AII can't do what needs doing. Yes, there is more typing and another interface to define, but they system works and is, IMHO, more powerful since you needn't use an AII but rather can use a full-fledged class with it's own methods, member data, and constructor. An example is an action listener that pops up a context menu. If you make a class that implements ActionListener and takes a JMenu as it's argument, you can do:       This looks cleaner (to me) than a boost:bind type solution.       or so     EDIT:     After doing a lot of work last night messing with generics, I realized one advantage of closures over AII. In the above examples, I have been assuming that the closure would be of type []=>(ActionEvent), but it really could be of the type []=>(? super ActionEvent). This means:       Would be compilable. This could prove useful, for when you need to do the same thing in response to multiple events.     Another example. This closure could be added to any place that takes a closure. If added to something as an ActionListener or MouseListener, it would log calls.    
  This is a good question but could be better worded:     "What are some similarities and differences between Java objects and JavaScript closures"?     Similarities: they both have persistent state in their local variables. Their methods have access to those state variables.     Differences: Javascript is a functional language, therefore functions within functions can be immediately invoked and returned. For example:       So you can write code like this snippet copy / pasted from    rhino shell   :    
Strut2 validation, Overriding css_xhtml theme
  HI Folks,     I'm using the Struts 2 validation. And for displaying the custom error messages I'm overriding the css_xhtml.. and the validation.js for client side validation. Every thing is going well but the validation is on form submit.. can i do it for all the form fields Onblur event.. Any suggestion highly appreciated      Thanks in Adavance     Cheers, Vinayak V B  
  you can use the    jquery plugin    to have onblur (client side) validation on your forms.       Furthermore, you may use DWR validation for struts2.  You will have to go through some setup procedures that involve adding the DWR.xml in your configuration file but once all that is done, you will be able to have AJAX validation on your forms.    Example    
  You could just call the forms onsubmit function through an onblur handler.  Something like:    
Trouble calling an applet method from page
  I know it's not optimal, but I have to work with it, a page making calls to the applet.     My problem is, when I do so, I recieve a rather cryptic error message:       "uncaught exception: Error calling method on NPObject!         [plugin exception: java.lang.reflect.InvocationTargetException]."       Can anyone decode this?  Even multiple possibilities would be better than the junk I came up with. The basic call to the applet is from a javascript call:       As you can see, the passData method is the exposed method I am trying to use.  The applet itself works fine on the page, it's just when I try to call this, it doesn't do anything except throw that error.     If I ask the person working on the applet (it's not my portion) is it possible for them to add constructive error throwing or am I not even at the point of connecting to the applet yet?  
    InvocationTargetException    indicates that the underlying method in your applet threw an exception. The Javascript to Java "boundary" uses reflection, so exceptions thrown by the Java code are wrapped like this. (This makes it possible to distinguish them from exceptions thrown before you got into your Java code. For example, if you tried to call a non-existant method.)     You can get the original exception by catching the InvocationTargetException and then calling its    getTargetException()    or    getCause()    method (they both do exactly the same thing).  
Thanks, that's definitely going to help out.  I'll leave the question open in case I get any more hits, but I'll check back tomorrow morning in case anyone has any more insight on it.
  I'd suggest you look into what    someOtherData    is. If    someOtherData    isn't a correct type it could cause such an exception. It sounds like you're trying to pass a DOM object?     Take a look at this page in    O'Reilly's JavaScript Guide    to see available types.  
The string I was passing was not being received correctly by the exposed Java applet method.
Could you elaborate?
Is it possible to use JSTL to display a date in the client's timezone?
  In Javascript, I have this function to display the current date on our page header:       I would like to do this via JSTL, but I'm not sure if it's possible.  So far, I have this fragment of code:       Because the date is now being created on the server, it may not represent the client's date.  I believe that I can set the timeZone attribute of the formatDate function, but I'm unsure how to grab the client's timezone.  Can somebody offer a suggestion?     Thanks!  
  All the information the server has is in the HTTP request which doesn't contain any info regarding time or timezone.     So you have two options:         Using a cookie you can store the timezone and then retrieve it in the server-side. The problem here is that you have to wait for the second request to use the timezone value.         Using AJAX, with javascript and a XMLHttpRequest object you can push 'new Date().getTimezoneOffset()' value to the server, store it in a session var         Maybe any of the options are too much if you just want to display time zone  
That's certainly a creative idea, but more complicated than the SCRIPT I currently have...
Yes, I poster this answer just if knowing the timezone is critical. All the information the server has is in the HTTP request which doesn't contain any info regarding time or timezone, so I guess it is impossible to know it if not using AJAX or a cookie
  The only way I can see of doing this without asking the user for some information is to format the date with javascript.  Not exactly the prettiest solution, I might add       Alternately, you might consider displaying the time zone in the formatted date.  This way, the user at least knows what time zone you're using.  
How to load .js files into a Rhino context in Java
  Here is my situation:     I have access to a Rhino Context object in a Java class.  I want to read in a bunch of .js files and pass them along to the Rhino context to have them evaluated.  I'm not really interested in having the functions in the .js files available in the scripting context so much as I am in just having the variables that are declared in the .js files available (this is a tooling validation kind of issue).       Ideally I would read in and try to evaluate each file all at once, not line by line.  I noticed there is a method in Context (see    Rhino API   ) called    evaluateReader()   .  My first guess is I should get all the files I want to load, go through them all, and call this method passing in some kind of reader object for each one, and great, now they're all in my scripting context.     So, assuming that I am on the right track there, can anyone tell me if there are any good practices to follow for using .js files in Java scripting contexts, or if there is a better way of doing it, or you did it some other way, etc?     Not looking for implementation details here, just feedback from other people that might have done this already in some of their code.  Messing with scripting languages from Java is new to me.  
  Are you aware that    Rhino ships in Java 6   ?       If you want to use it with Java 5, you'll have to    download    the API separately. You can get engines for many popular scripting languages from    scripting.dev.java.net   .  
"You can get engines for many popular scripting languages from scripting.dev.java.net." No, we can't anymore.  I know this is extremely old, but is there a newer link we should use?
@hexafraction Try this question: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/11838369/where-can-i-find-a-list-of-available-jsr-223-scripting-languages
+1 Thanks, that and the web archive have [helped](http://web.archive.org/web/20070610234337/https://scripting.dev.java.net/), since the latter is just a bag of links, really.
Trouble accessing Java classes from Firefox extension's Javascript
  I'm going to develop a Firefox extension which uses some Java classes. The extension gets the value of      input type="file"       fields, using Javascript.     The Java class I'm going to create is the following:       On Javascript, I have to use Java reflection in order to access Java classes.      In this manner I can create my Java object:       I've been trying this extension on Firefox-3.5b4 and everything goes fine, but when I try it on Firefox-3.0.10 I get the following exception*:       For example, putting the following line before the main method invokation:       on both Firefox-3.0.10 and 3.5b4 I get an alert window which says:       But only on 3.0.10 I get the exception, ONLY on my GNU/Linux machine. On Windows XP instead I have no problems on both Firefox versions!     Note that on both Windows and Linux the Java plugin version is 6 update 13.     Where am I wrong? Is it a possible bug on Firefox-3.0.10 Javascript engine or must I do any other thing before getting the main(...) method?  
  you are incorrectly invoiking the method using;       which is passing an argument of type java.lang.Class[] into the signature that is expecting a String object. simply pass the parameters object in as it is.  
public Method getMethod(String name,                         Class ... parameterTypes)                  throws NoSuchMethodException,                         SecurityException I guess he's right in that.
now I get this exception:  InternalError: Unable to convert JavaScript value  to Java value of type java.lang.Class[]
try changing the two reflecting lines to; var aStaticMethod = aClass.getMethod("main", parameters.getClass()); //gets the main(String[] args) method, here I get the exception* var myJava = aStaticMethod.invoke(null, parameters); removing the [] initializers since they already seem to have been created by the reflection call.
new error: There is no Java method java.lang.Class.getMethod that matches JavaScript argument types (string, object). Candidate methods with the same name are:    java.lang.reflect.Method getMethod(java.lang.String, java.lang.Class[])
  assuming your complete class name is "your.package.Firefox" you could do:    
how do I set the "args" value?
ReferenceError: importPackage is not defined
in "plain" rhino this is supposed to work sorry :(
Hi, just following-up DFA's comment: Related info:: https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Core_JavaScript_1.5_Guide/LiveConnect_Overview/JavaScript_to_Java_Communication
I've already tried out all stuff from developer.mozilla.org, with no success...
unEscape JavaScript escaped value in JAVA
  in our web service we set a cookie through JavaScript wich we read again in Java (Servlet)     however we need to escape the value of the cookie because it may contain illegal characters such as '   ' which messes up the cookie.     is there a transparent way to escape (JavaScript) and unescape again (JAVA) for this?     thanks, Pieter Goddijn  
Define "transparent way".
  In java you got    StringEscapeUtils    from    Commons Lang    to escape/unescape.     In Javascript you escape through    encodeURIComponent   , but I think the Commons component I gave to you will satisfy your needs.  
If you want to decode from encodeURIComponent see here http://stackoverflow.com/questions/607176/java-equivalent-to-javascripts-encodeuricomponent-that-produces-identical-outpu
  Client JavaScript/ECMAScript:       Server Java:       I'll add further discoveries to    my blog entry   .  
  The most accurate way would be to Excecute javascript withing your java code. Hope the code below helps.     
JSF Richfaces frontend performance tuning
  I've developed a web application using MyFaces 1.2.6 and Richfaces 3.3.1GA (just upgrated). Despite the ease of use, I found out that Richfaces components are very slow.     I also found out that they didn't really take advantage of the browser caching mechanism, they keep sending some lousy JS file every request and other things. I really would like to apply some rules described in the "High PErformance WEbsites" book, but I can't change de generated js and HTML code.     Does anyone have some tips for frontend performance tuning using Richfaces?     Thanks.  
  Have a read of    this article   .     Are you using Firebug + YSlow to check what is being stored in the cache? Using the web.xml    org.richfaces.LoadScriptStrategy    setting, you can tell Richfaces to either:       Load all script in one file.      Load no scripts (you do it yourself instead - eg. in the manner prescribed by your book).     Load scripts when needed (the default).       But some basic principles :         Never put logic into your getters. They are called multiple times and should only return something already populated by another method. For example if you are chaining drop-downs together use an   a4j:support    tag on the first one with an action attribute that loads the data which is then retrieved when you reRender the second one.         Use the    ajaxSingle="true"    unless you actually want to send the whole form back to the server.         Don't use a rich component if you only need a normal one. For example don't use    rich:dataTable    unless you are making use of some of the features that it has over and above   h:dataTable   .      
+1. And this is a second article by Dan Allen (he is the author of both articles, and author of Seam in Action): http://www.jsfcentral.com/articles/speed_up_your_jsf_app_2
  You can use:              org.ajax4jsf.DEFAULT_EXPIRE         31536000          So that all js, css files (generated by richfaces) are cached for 1 year on the browser. This really improved speed in our project.     Also, we do not need to worry about if we change richfaces version as when we change richfaces version it will generate different files.  
  To add on to Damo, you can also add a small filter to cache such js or images to improve the performance. But exert caution in doing this, if files intended to cach involve frequent updates.    
Sending MIDI messages in a Web page
  How can I play individual MIDI notes in a Web page?     I know of two ways to do it:         Write an ActiveX control.  Then it only works on Windows.  I used to write ActiveX controls a long time ago, but now nobody likes to install them.         Write a Java applet.  This is OK if the user already has Java installed, but many users disable applets.  This is the way I did it and you can see the result at newfweiler.com -- if it happens to work on your particular setup.  You'll need at least Java 5, although I suppose I could rewrite it in Java 1.2 if I had to.  The "Real Time Sequencer" and "Java Sound Synthesizer" don't work for me; I think you have to install wavetables or something to make them work.         Most users have Flash installed, but I looked in the Flash and Flex documentation and did not see anything equivalent to javax.sound.midi.     There are several ways to play a MIDI file in a Web page, and you can find "Javascript Pianos" that play a one-note MIDI file whenever you press a key.  You can't play multiple notes at once or hold the key down for a long note.     What I'm trying to do is the equivalent of javax.sound.midi.Receiver.send(midiMsg, -1) using only what most people typically have installed on the machine.  
  Java is still probably going to be your best bet, even with the few users disabling it.     I use NoScript, and I can whitelist a site.  I would say that most users would probably do the same if you provide compelling content.  
  Found the following (translated from Italian). I'd say Flash is the way to go. If you want to be ghetto you can just get 88 or so piano samples and play them against a timeline.       http://translate.google.com/translate?prev=hp   hl=en   js=n   u=http%3A%2F%2Fflash.html.it%2Fguide%2Flezione%2F2936%2Fmidi-player%2F   sl=it   tl=en   history_state0=    
Which to learn first Java or javascript?
  With the intent on becoming fluent on both to do a mix of web and application coding. Would one facilitate learning the other?    
They are only loosely related one doesn't really feed into the other as much as one might think. Don't let the names fool you.
Java and JavaScript have just the similar name in common. Besides that, they are absolutely different.
Good points, @Copas and @Gumbo, but if one starts with 0 programming knowledge one does need to start _some_where;-).
You might make this CW because it doesn't really have an answer.
like the joke goes: java:javascript::car:carpet.
@Lucas, I agree, should be a CW.
  It depends on which one (websites or programs) that you want to make first. If you do want to make websites your not going to get to far with just JavaScript and HTML (think about using    JQuery   ). You might also want to learn    ASP.NET   , it will allow you to use C# (very similar to Java) to make rich websites with code that can run on the server and HTML/JavaScript to be displayed to the user.     If you want to make programs look into Java or    C#   .      I learned HTML -> JavaScript -> BASIC -> C++ -> C# -> ASP.NET. I started with websites then learned programming and in turn went back to making websites using C# as my programming language.   
He does say he means to learn both, just wants tips on "which one _first_"...
@Alex: I updated my answer to reflect his real question. Thanks.
@Lucas: good points, though I disagree that "you won't get far" with Javascript (and HTML and CSS), these days -- guess I'll add a note to my answer to that effect.
@Alex: What I meant by that was he wouldn't be able to do anything that must run on the server using JavaScript.
  I've seen people try both approaches -- start with the more rigid and better-defined language first (here that would be Java), or start with the looser and more fluid one (here that would be Javascript). In my observation, which one works best depends on the learner: "left brained" personality types prefer stricter definition (start w/Java), "creative"/"right brained" ones prefer greater freedom of expression (start w/JS). So what's    your    personality?     Edit, to add...: Maybe you're (making up a personality) "center-brained", motivated by actually achieving small but neat/useful/cool results; in this case, and against "received wisdom", I suggest that, these days, there's actually a lot that you can achieve on the web with Javascript (and HTML and CSS). At Google I/O last week, Vic Gundotra showed something of what you can do with just these tools with the new HTML5 toys -- it's all over the web, search for it, but for example here's a    summary    with some further useful links.     That's definitely    not    to say that Java won't also be rewarding in terms of results you can achieve -- hey, just to stay in the Google arena, it's key to programming Android, it lets you "almost" (;-) avoid learning Javascript if you go with    GWT   , it can now be deployed to Google App Engine, etc, etc -- the sky's the limit! However, most people can probably achieve small results on the web faster (widgets, mashups, opensocial apps, etc, etc) with Javascript, especially in conjunction with a powerful toolkit such as    dojo    or    jquery   .     Then one could start talking about    server-side JS   , but that's a pretty    controversial    subject, and this answer is already pretty long, so I won't;-).  
+1 Good answer, plus great links.
Wow, I didn't even know SSJS existed :-O
  Beyond some of the basic syntax, they are not very similar at all.     Go with whichever you find most interesting first.  
  Those two are very different techonologies. They have similar C-like syntax, but thats all that they have in common. Go for JavaScript if you want to make websites and Java if you want desktop/enterprise appliactions.  
  What do you want to be able to do first? There are any number of languages which could be a first language and it really depends on what you want to do.  
  Apart from some superficial syntax and the name, the two have very little in common as languages. That being said, you can write useful (if not very "modern") webapps without JavaScript, but not without a server-side language like Java, so it might be better to start on that side; it's also the overall more complex one, since it includes database access.     Then again, there is    Server-side JavaScript    which would allow you to do everything in one language, but it's not a very common choice.  
  Java first, because you will be learning better programming habits that will be useful whatever second language you want to learn after. And it's less traumathic to make the transition from a static type system to a dynamic one than the reverse.  
  I would recommend start with Java. It would give you good basics in programming. With Java knowledge you can learn JavaScript, C# and other languages more easily. I don't think that would be the case if you would start with javascript.   
    Javascript    is a prototype-based scripting language, with weak and dynamic typing which is usually hosted in a browser.       Java    is an object-oriented programming language, with strong and static typing which runs on the Java Virtual Machine.       What does that mean?       From    Greg Hewgill's answer    to the question    What s the difference between JavaScript and Java?   :          Java and Javascript are similar like   Car and Carpet are similar.       As the others have already pointed out, both Java and Javascript superficially have similar syntax which is influenced by C, but most of the similarity ends there. Under the hood, the two languages are completely different beasts.     Between the two, getting started may be a little bit easier with Javascript than Java, as it is more forgiving in terms of things which can be performed. However, this can also mean that it might serve as a way to pick up some bad habits, such as overlooking the concept of data types.     At the end of the day, it will come down to what one wants to get accomplished first. Either performing tasks in the browser to manipulate webpages (Javascript), or writing programs that will run as applications on clients and servers (Java).  
Yeah, I wondered about the name coincidence. I guess I ll let the project dictate which one gets the most focus.  You are correct about the infrastructure needs (jvm vs web) that each needs. Thanks  y all
Naming is not a coincidence. It was a marketing decision. And JavaScript and Java are more similar than they might have been. The C syntax wasn't something Brendan Eich started with. He did make the language more Java-like as a result of the desire to have a "Java-like" syntax. I think that what we got with JavaScript (a functional language with C syntax) is really cool.
  IMO, learn JavaScript first.  You can be near guaranteed that you will come across a project/task where you need it.  Definitely take a look at jquery, a great library for javascript.     In terms of the application layer, if you are just learning now, Java is an OK decision to learn first, so is C#.  Personally, I prefer the open source stack, Perl, Python or PHP as I believe there are a lot more resources out there to help you learn them.  PHP will have the most resources, but Python is a better choice.  
  I would recommend learning a few different languages before learning JavaScript.  Java for class-based object orientation; LISP or similar for functional programming.  JavaScript can accomodate several different paradigms and it's easier if you are already familiar with them.     JavaScript does functional programming better than Python or Java, but not as easily as the "real" funcional programming languages.  JavaScript has its own variety of prototype-based object orientation and does it well.  You can force it to do object oriented programming in a Java-like way, but you're better off not calling functions "classes" and just calling them "prototypes".  It's difficult to model subclasses inheriting from base classes; it's much easier to just accept the concept of objects inheriting from prototypes.     JavaScript is much easier to learn and use if you are already familiar with the basic concepts.  For instance, you should know about HashMaps from Java or the equivalent Dictionaries in Python or Property Lists in LISP.  In JavaScript every object is a really super-efficient HashMap, so if your design can make use of that fact, use it.  
Javascript source files on JBoss have the wrong content-type/mime type?
  I am writing a JSP application and am deploying it to JBoss 5.0.  When I attempt to retrieve my CSS or Javascript files, JBoss returns the wrong Content-type for the file, so Firefox refuses to execute code supplied in them.  Here is my web.xml file:        Using lynx to test the file download, I get the following:      host> lynx    http://devbox:8080/TestServlet/js/main.js    -head -dump    
  I have found an answer by changing the following:        to be this, instead:        As a beginner to JSP, I'm not sure what tutorial I picked up the previous example from, but it had led to no amount of frustration.     The lynx command now results in:        This applies to CSS as well.  
asynchronous file upload with java servlet
  Here's I want to do, I want to upload a file that will be processed by a servlet. I would use Apache Commons - File Upload to handle the file to be uploaded.     I've seen the gmail-like AJAX file upload, where there would be a hidden iframe that would later be populated with a javascript to stop showing the upload image or displaying a message that the upload is succesful. However, this uses PHP, where the php file to handle the file upload would include the javascript inside the iframe.     My question is, how would I do this in Java using servlets, without resorting to JSP and imitating the above implementation on PHP. I don't even know if this is possible, so please guide me on a good implementation (without external libraries except for commons fileupload).     Note: I am aware that there are libraries out there that could do this easily, but I first want to know how this happens, how this is possible, and to dirty my hands and learn this.     Edit: Just to add, I would use the streaming API of Apache-Commons FileUpload  
  It is exactly the same.     The client makes an HTTP request to the server (by submitting a form).     The server responds with some HTML (which links to or embeds some JavaScript).     Switching from PHP to Java is just a drop in replacement. You don't need to change any of the JavaScript. The    user guide    tells you how to set it up.  
Could you tell me how to embed HTML to a redirect without JSP?
Why would a redirect be involved? The servelet just needs to output a text/html response.
A-Hah! That just shows I'm really new to this AJAX thing. Was accustomed to redirecting to servlets and JSP. :) Thanks!
    http://oreilly.com/pub/a/javascript/2002/02/08/iframe.html    is the best idea to file-upload. i done file upload using hidden iframe. Please consult with attached link.  
Ajax request parameters, what am I doing wrong?
  I'm formulating an Ajax request using prototype in the following method:       And I have a servlet which tries to get the parameter That I put in the ajax method, but isn't finding any parameters in the request object. And if I try to get the attribute I've set it's listed as being null.       Am I not instantiating the Ajax request properly or Am I making a mistake in getting the parameters?       EDIT       I've changed the javascript to clear any confusion about the name as follows:       The Java side is still not getting any parameters, I've added a loop that prints out all the parameters from request.getAttributeNames(); as follows:       and it does nothing aside from print out the line before the loop.     I've also tried putting a bigger array in the params and that doesnt work either, the loop still doesn't iterate.     I've run the Java end in debug mode and there are no attributes being sent. At least not as far as java can see.     I've also tried changing the paramaters to parameters: "step=1   garbage:'hello world'   foo='bar'" because    the Prototype docs say you can do that    no attributes server side. I've changed the mode to get and appended it to the url and there are no attributes...  
just a quick thought: Tried setting the parameter name to something other than the variable name? "stepNumber:stepNumber" looks like it could cause some issues...
trying that now I'll get back to you with an answer.
I've just noticed that the line "alert(params.stepNumber);" seems to show undefined. Am I not creating this array correctly? I've also tried params["stepNumber"] and thats undefined too.
I've changed the array to be step: stepNumber and it's not working. but at least params["step"] is defined...
Just as an aside; for somewhat easier way to do Ajax with Java, you might want to check out DWR, http://directwebremoting.org
Thanks I'll have a look at DWR but at the moment I don't have the time to rip out my current code an replace it with other code.
  After briefly checking the prototype documentation, your request    looks    valid.       I recommend inspecting the content of the AJAX request directly.  Use    Firebug    or an external HTTP sniffer like    Charles Proxy    to verify that the POST request contains your data.     EDIT     I totally missed it - you're definitely defining the object wrong.  You can't reuse an existing symbol as an object property without properly delimiting it.       When you don't do this (let's assume stepNumber == 4) then your params object looks like this    
I've looked at it incharlies proxy and I don't see an entry for the parameters....
I've fixed this by changing the key to step, still not getting any parameters....
  Use getParameterNames() not getAttributeNames().     Read:    http://java.sun.com/j2ee/1.4/docs/api/javax/servlet/ServletRequest.html       and look at the interface function descriptions for the differences between them.  
Thank you. Replaced the line in the java with: Integer pageNumber = (Integer.parseInt(request.getParameter("step"))); and it works like a charm.
javascript : having trouble passing form values to javascript and processing it to httprequest
  I have a java servlet (class) which populates form data.        which loops with a different id as you can see so a form would look like this        and they post to this javascript which is in the head of the html of the generated forms       and the javascript turns around and posts to this java file which inserts the data into the database with the  snippet        I decided to shorten the number of paramters for readibility.  The main thing I'm having trouble with is how the URLDecoding and URLEncoding is transferring over correctly to be inserted into a Java PreparedStatement.  I've narrowed it down the problem being somewhere in the javascript because when I created a simple html form with variables populated with the URLEncoded values, it inserts just fine.  However when I run it through the javascript, I get a Null error      Is there a better way to do this or any ideas why the values are not making it through?  Does javascript require some working around with when encoding strings to be Post'ed or Get?      thanks in advance.       UPDATE:  I just did a System.out.println on reach request.getParamter and the script stops at      String itemdescription = URLDecoder.decode(request.getParameter( "itemdescription"), "UTF-8"); so it obviously has a problem with the URLDecoder.decode(request.getParameter("itemdescription"),"UTF-8")    
  Here are some things to try: In your JavaScript, encode your URL paraemters with    encodeURIComponent   :       Next, you may have to set the encoding on the request using    setCharacterEncoding       Last, I think if you call request.getParameter, it does the URLDecoding for you.  
  looks like you should be url encoding your request parameter values in your javascript      tempUrl +=  "?partnumber="+partnumber+"   "+"itemdescription="+escape(itemdescription)+"   "+"itemshortdescription="+escape(itemdescription.substring(0,37))  
escape and unescape are deprecated - https://developer.mozilla.org/En/Core_JavaScript_1.5_Guide/Predefined_Functions/Escape_and_unescape_Functions
thanks for letting me know :)
Need a Java and Javascript diff tool written in Java
  We need an accurate diff utility for Java and Javascript files, written in Java. It should be invokable from within an Eclipse (version 3.2 or 3.3) application. Preferably we need the Java source code for this utility also.     The utility should be able to compare two files (old and new, say) and determine the following accurately:       Number of LOC added to the new file     Number of LOC deleted from the old file     Number of LOC changed in the old file     Number of change deltas, i.e., contiguous blocks of code added/changed/deleted.    
You might want to rephrase that to something like "does anyone know of a free Java diff tool that can do the following ...". As it stands, it looks like a request for us to make one for you in which case you should probably head on over to RentACoder :-)
Isn't there one already built in or use one of the many plug-ins that do it? Google Search?
  See    Diffj   .  
  Eclipse has a very good diff/compare plugin installed by default. Have you looked into using and/or extending that (it's opensource)? I would not think that adding some statistics reporting to the existing plug-in would be all that difficult, though sometimes plug-in development (even just simple extension) can be deceiving.     Good luck.  
  I needed a Java diff implementation and found this:    http://javacook.darwinsys.com/javasrc/textproc/Diff.java    which I adapted.  
Java frameworks vs. Javascript frameworks
  I am a big fan of the    Dojo Toolkit    but I see here often that there are Java frameworks that do the same thing but they are not as extensive or as user friendly as Dojo in my opinion.     What are the main differences?     Can I use Dojo for the GUI and Java as the back-end?     Is there a list of Java frameworks for web development?  
http://tinyurl.com/l2apzg see the list of some java web frameworks
This is a fairly big misconception. The first chapter of every pretty much any javascript book describes how it's almost entirely unrelated to java.
Then I guess you don't understand my question. I saw multiple java gui frameworks that actually do the same thing as dojo and I am wondering what is better. I didn't say java is related to javascript. I am just searching for the framework I like the most.
Maybe if you haven't titled your question as Java vs Javascript...
it's java vs. javascript frameworks. pharhaps the title should be java framekworks vs. javascript frameworks if it wasn't clear enough.
isn't this equivalent to "Comparing Apples with Oranges"
  I dont think unless using Applets, java can do the same as javascript because they have different purpose. Even applets dont exactly do the same thing.  Read    this      
Well - there Google Web Toolkit. A lot of discussion about this here: http://code.google.com/intl/nb-NO/events/io/sessions.html
GWT takes the Java code and translates it -literally- to Javascript code
Agree to all the comments, all i wanted to say is Java != JavaScript
  Javascript is a completely different thing from Java     Javascript is intended for browser behaviour, Java is a complete different thing. Some    Java Web frameworks use Dojo    (like MyFaces) when rendering rich components and Java is in charge of the backend.     You can find many useful alternatives for Java Web Frameworks in stackoverflow       What Web Application Framework for Java is recommended?       I personally prefer Spring MVC but there are many options  
Where do you see MyFaces uses dojo?
When MyFaces renders the HTML it includes some dojo libraries, it is mentioned in its documentation and even some components explicitly are named     
Is it really a "completely" different thing, or are we intended to overlook what they have in common? However, I think that Java is rather a subset of Javascript than the other way round. ;)
  I have found    this library    to fit my needs. I just need a server side back-end and it looks very lightweight.  
I don't think this is an answer for you own question, hehe. I didn't down-voted you though
Why not? Dojo handles REST channels. I can write my own framework around it.
  You shouldn't compare Java and Dojo, they are quite different animals.     Dojo is a Javascript toolkit/library so you should rather compare it to ExtJS for instance.     And yes, you can use whatever js script you like in the HTML/jsp pages of your web application.     Regarding Java frameworks, first and foremost look into Spring.  
       "Java is to Javascript what car is to   carpet."    
Where did you hear this? Greg Hewgill posted it here: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/245062/whats-the-difference-between-javascript-and-java/245068#245068 , but he didn't remember where he got it from.
I believe the credit goes to Chris Heilmann : http://www.wait-till-i.com/2005/11/08/do-hr-people-even-read-their-job-ads-when-they-get-published/
*"Java is to Javascript what subway is to car"*
  It is quite possible to combine Dojo and a Java web framework. My company's application uses both Dojo and Spring MVC. The two technologies address different sets of problems. Dojo is a client-side framework for managing UI components (widgets), AJAX requests, and providing a browser-independent abstraction on top of JavaScript and the DOM. Spring MVC is a server-side framework that receives requests from the browser, provides entry-points into server-side business logic, and directs page flow through the application.     Having said that, there are other Java web frameworks that overlap some functionality that is also provided by JavaScript tools like Dojo. JSF with ICEfaces or RichFaces come to mind. In those models, the server (Java) has more direct control over how components are rendered and how their state is held. One explicit goal of RichFaces, for example, is to help developers who don't know JavaScript (or don't want to write it) develop AJAX applications. But I wouldn't say one approach is better than the other. They just focus on different developer audiences.  
    JavaScript Frameworks.    Those listed    here    include:       Prototype     jQuery     Ext     Script.aculo.us     MooTools     Yahoo! UI Library (YUI)     Dojo Toolkit     Backspace       They are among the most popular ones. I use MooTools.  
Obtaining in IE the length of a Java array passed from an applet to its Javascript wrapper
  I have the following method in my applet:       Which I call from Javascript as follows:       This works in Firefox but IE gives me       Any ideas anyone?  
Knowing nothing about Java I can only ask if you've tried "for(i in files) { /* do stuff */ }"
Don't you mean File[] (not Files[])? Other then that, it would help if you alert(files). Also, if you have a javascript debugger (DebugBar, for example) that would help the most.
@annakata: Yes, I've tried it.  It doesn't work in either Firefox or IE. @laginimaineb: Corrected question.  Thanks!  Also, alert(files) doesn't help much but I'm going to try kizzx2's suggestion below to peek into files' structure.
  You can use    Firebug Lite    in IE to investigate what's going on with    files       First, include Firebug Lite in your file       Now log it in the console with       Now you can investigate what object was actually being returned by    getFiles()       I give this suggestion because IE said      length    is null not or not an object    instead of      files    is null or not an object   , so maybe    files    have other methods that you can use. Use Firebug to reflect those.  
  Not sure how widely supported passing a Java array to javascript is. A workaround is to return the array as a delimited string as shown in the following example       http://www.rgagnon.com/javadetails/java-0183.html    
Already seen this link.  Approach is not viable since getFiles returns an array of non-string objects.
I realise that, you build the string from the string attributes required from the File array, eg. the file path. you can then get the details required from the file using that path
  Work-around found.  Instead of returning an array, return a list instead.  Then iterate through it using the get and size methods.  Works in both IE and Firefox.     So, the applet method should be:       And to use it Javascript-side:    
Should have checked https://developer.mozilla.org/en/LiveConnect first.  Clearly stated there that arrays are dodgy in a certain LiveConnect version.
Can I create a 'window' object for javascript running in the Java6 Rhino Script Engine
    I want to run some Javascript on my Java6 server - i.e. using the javax.script API, specifically the Rhino Script Engine. (Although another solution would be acceptable)      The script file is created     supported by a third party, so I don't want to download it and edit it in case it changes over time.     The script directly references the 'window' object ( and probably the 'document' object etc. ) which Rhino does not    seem to    support.       Can I do this, and if so, how?  
    ... of course, they won't do a lot of good unless you populate them with the properties that the script is trying to access.     You can't just populate them with the standard browser APIs - most of them don't make sense outside the context of the browser.  
  The window and document objects are just provided by web-browsers and are not part of the    ECMAScript standard    which Rhino implements. They are there to allow a script to access the current browser window and the HTML document. The document object is actually an implementation of the    W3C DOM   .     Rhino is a pure implementation of ECMAScript/JavaScript 1.7 and therefore does not know anything about HTML pages, windows and browserstuff in general. It is a general purpose scripting language which just happens to be mostly embedded into a web browser and thus you can usually use the global objects provided by the browser.     You can of course define some globally accessible objects with the names "window" and "document" which are just stubs which do nothing, but the script you want to execute probably uses some methods and/or properties on them, so this won't help you much. If you want to execute a script, which was written for execution in a browser environment, you need to provide a full "browser"-like environment.     If that is possible and makes sense in a server context is another question...  
  See John Resig's blog:    Bringing the Browser to the Server    
That looks awesome! I'll try that - cheers.
Can Not Read id on JSF Components
  I have a little problem I am trying to use MartkItUp JQuery rich text editor on JSF textarea component. My form looks like this:       The problem is that on output it gives me the id for textarea like that       When I try in JQuery to point to it nothing happens.       I had a plain textarea before, and there was no problem. Now, I have a lot of them.     How do I point to id in JQuery, thats looks like    comment:commentBody       P.S: I know i can point to this text area by $('textarea').markItUp(mySettings); however i am looking for solution to point to specific text area by it's ID.  
  try this:       this will select text area having ID    ending    with    commentBody   .     to select control with ID starting with particular string replace    $    with    ^    
Got an error when was trying to use your method. But either way, thanks for trying to help
  Try this,    $('#comment\\:commentBody')   , for JQuery version 1.1.3 or greater.  
It's worked well. Thanks
  You can read about JSF IDs    here   , but in this case you may also find the    h:form       prependId    attribute useful.  
Exemplary work. +1
What compilers target JavaScript runtimes?
  I am using GWT, which includes a Java-to-JavaScript compiler.  Before this project, targeting the JavaScript runtime from a different language hadn't occurred to me, and I'm enjoying the GWT experience.     A quick search revealed Java2Script as another Java-to-JavaScript solution.  Are there any other mature compilers that target the JavaScript runtime?  
We develop http://websharper.com/ that compiles F# to JavaScript.
    OpenLaszlo    is on open source XML -> Javascript (technically DHTML, also can compile to Flash) compiler.  I've played with it a little bit and it seemed interesting, although have never used it seriously (bad IDE support when I tried it).       Objective-j    is a similar project that resembles objective-c, although runs as javascript (not sure if it compiles it or has a js interpreter).  I don't know much about it, but do see posts about it on the    Ajaxian    from time to time.  
objective-j compiles either at runtime or ahead of time. It's mostly javascript with a few extra constructs though.
Objective-j is interpreted (by a javascript engine). It looks a bit weird for my tastes personally, but this http://280atlas.com/ is written in objective-j, and it looks awesome. Though i m sure a similar thing is possible in GWT.
Objective-J code looks ugly. I hate Objective-C code as well so... OpenLaszio looks great actually, I might even try it some time.
      Script #         JSC         cappuccino    (sort of)    
  While there are other products which compile to javascript (noted in the other comments), I believe that GWT is, by far, the most mature one out there, in terms of real-world usage. The simple fact that a number of Google's core applications use GWT (e.g.: the new adwords GUI, Google wave, etc) means you can have confidence the product is going to be maintained for at least the next few years, it isn't just going to fade away anytime soon.      Another thing to keep in mind is that GWT is far more than a java-to-javascript compiler, it also is an optimizing compiler, it has hosted mode, it is fully interoperable with native javascript, it does image bundling, it does code spliting in the new version, etc.  
Google suspended Wave development less than 3 months after its public release, so in retrospect I'm not sure that was the best example of GWT's anticipated longevity.  :-)
    Parenscript    is "a translator from a small Lispy language to JavaScript".  It's not Common Lisp -- it's mostly just Lisp syntax for Javascript, though for simple things you can write the same code to target both, if you're careful.  I'm not sure I'd call it "mature", either.  
    Pyjamas    compiles Python to JavaScript.       HotRuby    runs Ruby source code under JavaScript and Flash.       Orto    is (was?) a JVM implemented in JavaScript. (Original site is down; link is to a blog entry.)     The    ZK framework   , which likes to compare themselves favorably against GWT, uses Java and XML to generate JavaScript. (They claim that it takes far less code than GWT to do the same stuff.)     And I have heard it well-argued that    jQuery    is a separate language that happens to be implemented in, and run under, JavaScript. :-)  
  You also have    haXe   . It features static, structural, strong and inferred typing; algebraic data types; lambda expressions with closure support; a module system and can compile not only to JavaScript but also Flash, C++, Neko, PHP. Java support is under development too.  
  Here's a shameless plug for a project I started and am continuing to develop:    scxml-js   , a Statecharts-to-JavaScript compiler  
    List of languages that compile to JS    
  The inventors of    Clojure    (a JVM based Lisp dialect) launched    ClojureScript    in mid-2011. ClojureScript compiles Clojure source code into JavaScript, making use of the Google Closure compiler and the Closure framework. ClojureScript code can run both in the browser client, or on node.js servers.  
Native Javascript method in GWT
  I have a native Javascript method in one of my GWT Java classes, but I'm having trouble calling my Java methods from the native Javascript code. I tried to follow    this    as closely as I could, but I can't get it to work. I compiled it and ran it in Firefox, and the error console said    "Error: this.lc is not a function"   . I tried changing all the methods to    public   , but that didn't seem to make a difference. What am I doing wrong?    
  In all the code I've done in the past, I've never used 'this' to identify my class, I have passed the class in.     Eg: Change this:       To this:    
Perfect! This makes sense, but I wish it was documented better on the GWT site.
  I found a better way. It's similar to what you do in JavaScript, where you set "var that = this". Using this approach, you don't have to pass this to listenForPostMessage():    
Javascript_Java_Interaction applet "Codebase" problem
  I saw an article about Javascript_Java_Interaction today at :        ============================================================================================       ==========================================================================================     It displayed the applet on the page [Javascript_Java_Interaction.html], but if I type in some text and click the button, nothing happens, the problem is in the following line :       So I copied the class file into the same dir as the html files [C:/Dir_Fit/] and changed the above line to :        now it works, it will display an alert window.     So, my question is why it didn't work when I specified the codebase ? According to Java document if the class file is in a different dir, you can tell it by codebase, the applet will show up but if you type in some text and click the button, nothing will happen, I've tried different ways to specify the code base :       Yet, none of them works, why ? I don't want the class file to be in the same dir as the htmls. What's the fix ?     Frank  
  It might have something to do with the changes made in Java 6 Update 10. After the release my applets started to fail with ClassNotFoundExceptions independent of the browser - strangely they worked with 6u7 before that. First I thought about a messed up installment or configuration but then others have experienced the same thing in their system.     My trial-and-error came up with the very same result as your observation, namely if I specify even an empty    codebase    attribute, my applet fails.     Googling around (today) does not come up with any meaningful results or bug reports issued. I would guess the rules for the codebase attribute usage changed between versions - maybe the old one wasn't restrictive enough or wasn't conformant to some specification.  
scripting in java - javascript from a server-side class file in Java 1.5
  I have three types of    get    requests that are delivered to a    class    file on web application from a mobile device. Because the mobile device provides no cookies, the log file hit only has        If I can instantiate javascript in my class file, and generate a javascript function call to  urchinTracker() from inside the class file, I can replace that useless cookieArrayLength=0; with some useful data urchin can read from the log file into analytics reports. We have been looking at    scripting in Java with Rhino   ; Safari Bookshelf has:           Scripting in JavaTM: Languages,   Frameworks, and Patterns       which helped us immediately demo that we can run javascript in class files --this works out-of-the-box on Java 6.      Anyone know any resources for scripting with Rhino on Java 1.5 or 1.4?      Alternately, any suggestions for running javascript from java 1.5 would be appreciated.  
  The    Java Scripting API    (   javax.scripting   ) package was introduced in Java 6, so that will not be available in Java 1.4 or 5. As the default installation, Java SE 6 comes with a stripped down version of Mozilla Rhino which is interfaced through    javax.scripting   .     However,    Mozilla Rhino    itself does not require Java 6. From the requirements page:          Recent versions of Rhino have only   been tested with JDK 1.4 and greater.   Older versions support JDKs as early   as 1.1.       Therefore, to use Rhino, it appears that Java 1.4 is actually sufficient.     As for resources, the    documentation for Rhino    seems to have a lot of information. In particular, the    Embedding Rhino    section might be useful to see how the scripting will work.     Of course, the lack of the    javax.scripting    package means that interfacing to Rhino itself is going to require the use of the Rhino API rather than the Java 6 native scripting API, but I would guess that the functionality is going to be fairly similar. The only downside I can see is, if in the future, Java 6 is going to be supported on the target platform and/or using another language, it may necessitate a rewrite to use the Java Scripting API rather than directly supporting Rhino.  
thanks for the resource links; we are able to use the stripped-down Rhino in Java 6 via javax.scripting to compile test.js (javascript) to class file and call tests() locally but have not been successful in compiling the __utm.js and calling urchinTracker()  compiling from source and trying again, but at the moment it looks like  /users/58787/unknown-google may be right in comment below.
We followed Rhino docs to run JavaScript interpreter from Java 1.4 and 1.5.
  See    Server-side JavaScript    for list of projects that runs JavaScript at the server-side.     For your usage, using Rhino seems like the way to go.  
  [I'm posting in an answer, because I don't have enough points to post a comment on the question itself.]     Are you sure that the urchinTracker() function will operate outside of a web browser? Running the Rhino JavaScript interpreter (which isn't too difficult) won't be enough if the function relies on various browser objects, like the Document Object Model (DOM) or XmlHttpRequest.     I suggest that you at least scan the internals of the urchinTracker() function to see if this is the case.  
not sure yet, but was unable this morning to pass values via urchinTracker() through javax.scripting (Java 6 test environment) so it is unlikely to work on dev. will know by tomorrow...
This is correct. __utm.js has dependancies on various browser objects. Thanks!
Just wanted to point out the envjs project: "envjs is a pure JavaScript browser environment that runs in Rhino." Blog Posting: http://ejohn.org/blog/bringing-the-browser-to-the-server/ Discussion Group: http://groups.google.com/group/envjs Source Repository: http://github.com/thatcher/env-js/tree/master
setting classpath for java classes(jar file) in XUL, to access via javascript
  I am implementing firefox extension using XUL. I have set of java classes that is zipped as jar which needs to be accessed through javascript.     If I copy my jar into jre's lib/ext then javascript will be able to invoke my java classes. If I remove from ext and package this jar in xpi, Javascript is unable to find the classpath for my jar file. Please let me know how to set the classpath for my java classes(jar file) in XUL environment at the earliest.  
javascript/XUL invoking java ? interesting... any ref ?
  I suggest taking a look at this extension       XQuery USE ME 1.4.7       and the following articles       Calling java from XUL applications         Java in Firefox Extensions    
Thanks, Is there any easy way to set the classpath such that javascript can find it.- Anand.
What is the disadvantage of DWR?
  While using DWR in a intranet, will disadvantages like perfomance or security issues occur? Direct web remoting is a tool which uses Ajax request to contact a server from a js file.  
  One thing I would watch out for is that your server will most likely get hit by more HTTP requests than if you have the (normal) full page HTTP delivery.     Let me explain. When your web page is AJAX-enabled, your clients will end up creating more HTTP requests for (say) form filling, page-fragment regeneration etc. I've seen scenarios where developers have gone AJAX-crazy, and made the web page a largely dynamic document. This results in a great user experience (if done well), but every request results in a server hit, leading to scalability and latency issues.     Note - this isn't particular to DWR, but is an AJAX issue. I've used DWR, and it works nicely. Unfortunately, I found that it worked so well, and so easily, that everything becomes a candidate for remoting, and you can end up with    huge    numbers of small requests.   
I agree with this answer. I used DWR in an web-based application. The application gives a great user experience, but I think the application doesn't work fast, because of all the JavaScript and httprequest.
  I worked on a project with DWR - a really nice tool.     I'm not convinced about the pace of development though. They did post    on the development log    that they're working on getting 3.0 out the door, but the last stable release - 2.0 - was out in summer 2006. It's a bit worrying taken from a support perspective - bug fixes especially.  
  Main problem I've experienced is trying to script a load test on a system where the main bulk of the work is done via DWR calls. The format of the calls is difficult to replicate when compared with just replying a bunch of urls with changing parameters.     Still DWR is an excellent framework and makes implementing Javascript -> Java RPC pretty damn easy.  
  DWR is a great tool when your site has a lot of ajax calls.      Each page that makes dwr rpc calls needs to include :     a) an interface file corresponding to the calls being made. and  b) a js file bundled with dwr that contains the dwr engine code that makes these calls possible. for e.g.      script src="/dwr/engine.js"      /script         one technique that is frequently used while optimizing web applications is to use the browser cache as much as possible when a resource(like a js file) has not changed on a server.      engine.js is something that will never change unless you upgrade your dwr to a newer version. But, by default, engine.js is not a static file served by your webserver. its bundled as part of the dwr tool itsef and is served by the dwr controller/servlet.this doesnt aid client side caching.      So, it is beneficial to save engine.js under the document root of your webserver and let the webserver serve it as a static file.   
More about caching engine.js on DWR's site: http://directwebremoting.org/dwr/browser/engine/static.html
  One feature missing of current DWR 3.x that any user should take good care is that when an instance of a bean has properties of NULL value, those properties will be still injected to the JSON and these redundant data DO affect the performance.     When a property has the value of NULL, usually it should not be sent to frontend.     Details of problem:    http://dwr.2114559.n2.nabble.com/Creating-Custom-bean-converter-td6178318.html    
  The biggest difference among other solutions to transfer objects (marshaling) is object references.     For instance, if you use it to transfer a tree:     A     |-B     |-C     in a list {A,B,C}:     B.parent = A C.parent= A     then A is the same object in Javascrit!     On the bad side, if you have complex structures with circular dependencies and lot of objects: A   -B, B   -C, C   -B, C   .A,... it could crash.     Anyway, I use it in a real project used by many hundreds of companies in production to transfer thousands of objects to a single html page in order to draw a complex graph and it works nicely with a good performance.  
Clientside Javascript --> Serverside Java --> user is served a .doc
  I am helping someone out with a javascript-based web app (even though I know next to nothing about web development) and we are unsure about the best way to implement a feature we'd like to have.     Basically, the user will be using our tool to view all kinds of boring data in tables, columns, etc. via javascript. We want to implement a feature where the user can click a button or link that then allows the user to download the displayed data in a .doc file.     Our basic idea so far is something like:       call a Java function on the server with the desired data passed in as a String when the link is clicked     generate the .doc file on the server     automatically "open" a link to the file in the client's browser to initiate the download       Is this possible? If so, is it feasible? Or, can you recommend a better solution?       edit:    the data does not reside on the server; rather, it is queried from a SQL database  
What type of web server are you using?
a java enabled one, i presume
  Yep, its possible. Your saviour is the    Apache POI library   . Its HWPF library will help you generate Microsoft word files using java. The rest is just clever use of HTTP.  
  Your basic idea sounds a bit Rube-Goldbergesque.     Is the data you want in the document present on the server? If so, then all you need to do is display a plain HTML link with GET parameters that describes the data (i.e. data for customer X from date A to date B). The link will be handled on the server by a Servlet that gets the data and produces the .DOC file as its output to be downloaded by the browser - a very simple one-step process that doesn't even involve any JavaScript.  
no, the data is being queried from a SQL database
Which means the server can simply run the same query again - it has done it before, it's not the javaScript that directly accesses the DB, is it?
  Passing large amount data as GET/POST around might not be the best idea. You could just pass in the same parameters you used to generate the HTML page earlier. You don't even need to use 3rd party library to generate DOC. You could just generate a plain old HTML file with DOC extension and Word will be happy to open it.  
thats a nice trick :) but the file format won't really be DOC now, will it :)
that's a good idea, but it would be nice to keep the table formatting
True, but if the user sees the results opening in Word, nobody cares (from experience). We did the same trick for export only excel spreadsheets - no problem with comma-semicolon separator unlike in csv.
  Sounds like    Docmosis    Java library could help - check out theonline demo since shows it something similar to what you're asking - generating a real doc file from a web site based on selections in the web page.  Docmosis can query from databases and run pretty much anywhere.  
How can I get a signed Java Applet to perform privileged operations when called from unsigned Javascript?
  Signed Java Applets have the same security clearance as a normal Java application running on the client. For a particular project, I    need    these permissions, and I    need    to perform privileged operations as a result of a JavaScript call.     Now, the problem is that, at least for Firefox 3 in Ubuntu (target browser and platform), when an applet method is invoked through unsigned JavaScript it loses its special permissions. As signing the JavaScript is not an option, I need a way to work around this restriction.     One way to achieve this is to create a thread when the applet starts, and call methods on that thread whenever the main thread receives the JavaScript calls. I have implemented a working prototype of that idea, but I have found it a bit clumsy, because it uses too much reflection and isn't as easily reusable as I would have wanted.     Is there a common, standard way of doing what I'm trying to do? And, if my idea is the right way to go, how would you go about implementing it in a reusable way? What I'm trying to achieve is a framework that allows this "running-methods-in-a-privileg-thread" thing to be used for a variety of objects. The ideal, utopic solution would be something like:    
  Use the java.security.AccessController class.     There is a doPrivilegedAction and doPrivilegedExceptionAction that do exactly what you need.     For example:    
  It's worth adding:  make your privaction'd    run()    method as small and self-contained as possible.  Obviously you could just have your signed applet's init() method call a privileged    run()    which in turn does the actual applet, but that's just begging to be abused, misused accidentally, or outright exploited.     Also, the fact that signed applets lose their special permissions when called by JavaScript is not specific to a particular browser or platform.  That's just how it is, everywhere, all the time.  
Java date format to JavaScript date format
  I would like to be able to convert a Java date format string, e.g.    dd/MM/yyyy    (07/06/2009) to a JavaScript date format string, e.g.    dd/mm/yy    (07/06/2009).      Has anyone done this before, or got any idea where I might find some code that already does this?     Thanks in advance.       Edit:       Thanks for all the replies but now I realize my mistake and possibly why so many of you were struggling to understand the question; JavaScript doesn't have a built in date formatting ability. I am using the jQuery UI datepicker and I have been setting its date format, assuming it would be calling a standard JS function at some point, not using its own library! When I googled for formatting strings I jumped straight to the tables of what letters could be used, skipping the bit at the beginning explaining how to use the script.     Anyway I'll have to go ahead and possibly write my own I guess, converting a Java date format string into a jQuery date format string (or as close as possible) - I am working on the i18n of our product and have created a java class that stores the preferred date format string used throughout the application, my intention was to also have the ability to supply any jsps with the format string that is equivalent in JS.     Thanks anyway.  
"dd/mm/yy (07/06/2009)" does not compute, but I won't edit it because I'm not sure on exactly what you intend.
Could you give some information on how you are passing the Java date to the Javascript code? e.g. are you writing it out using a JSP? That will help a lot in answering your question.
Did you mean "dd/mm/yy (07/06/09)"? Otherwise I don't understand the difference between the two sample dates you gave.
After reading this question about twenty times, I think Ed means  How do I convert a string used to format dates in Java (using SimpleDateFormat) to an equivalent string used to format dates in JavaScript (using Date.format)? 
(However I am still down-voting this question because if you need to do this, you re doing it wrong).
  If you are using java, take a look at the    Simple Date Format    class.  
  The javascript code in    this page    implements some date functions and they "use the same format strings as the java.text.SimpleDateFormat class, with a few minor exceptions". It is not the very same as you want but it can be a good start point.  
  A similar topic has been answered here:    Converting dates in JavaScript       I personally have found this to be a rather large pain and took the author's suggestion and used a library.  As noted, jQuery datepicker has one that is a viable solution if you can afford the overhead of download for your application or already using it.  
I really think a libary is the way to go on this one as well.  FWIW, dojo has a good one as well. http://docs.dojocampus.org/dojo/date/locale
  If you just need to pass a date from Java to JavaScript, the best way to do it, I think, would be to convert the Java date to milliseconds using    date.getTime()   , create a JavaScript date initialized with this milliseconds value with    new Date(milliseconds)   and then format the date with the means of the JavaScript Date object, like:    date.toLocaleString()   .  
I have a similar problem with Java Date -> Javascript Date -> DatePicker.  This helped get me a lot closer.  Thanks!
Best solution. Solved the fact that SimpleDateFormat doesn't provide a zero based month.
  See this:       http://www.javascripttoolbox.com/lib/date/examples.php    
  If you just want to format dates my date extensions will do that well - it also parses data formats and does a lot of date math/compares as well:       DP_DateExtensions Library       Not sure if it'll help, but I've found it invaluable in several projects.  
  You could use my plugin    jquery-dateFormat   .    
  This JavaScript library should be able to help you.         http://plugins.jquery.com/project/fIsForFormat       (I don't know why they have it as a jQuery Plugin, because it works standalone.)     You'd simply split the original formatted date into its individual elements and then create a new Date Object with those elements.  Then, use this library's "Date.f()" method to output it into any format you could want.     For example:    
  This works fine for me:    
  Check out    moment.js   ! It's "A lightweight javascript date library for parsing, manipulating, and formatting dates". It is a really powerful little library.     Here's an example...       Here's another example...         Also, its worth mentioning to checkout    date.js   . I think the two libraries complement each other.  
Communication between Java and Javascript without Netscape or IE?
  In the lab I work in, we use Mozilla 1.7 for Sun Java  Desktop System and Firefox 2.0.0.4.  My goal is to modify an existing Java application (run via executable jar) to communicate with our web-based login system.     I am open to the idea of using both Java Applets and JavaScript to accomplish this task, but I have not found a way to integrate these two technologies in any browser but Netscape Navigator and Internet explorer.     Is there a way to do this using either of the two aforementioned browsers?     A more concrete example:   1. Launch application    2. Click a "login" button   3. Be prompted for a password   4. In the background, have the application connect to the web-based login server, enter the username (known by the app) and the password, navigate to the time clock section and "click" the Punch In button   5.  Pull the timestamp of the login (typically displayed on the browser) and display it in the app  
From your question it is not clear why you need a browser to begin with.   It is nearly trivial to perform a GET or POST from java with the login credentials and retrieve this time stamp.  With out modification to the web service you can parse the out of the text returned from the GET or POST and then present the time stamp.
  Look at HTTPURLConnection and    perform POST    of the same values login form contains to the same URL.   
It looks like the GET and POST is the solution I've been looking for. I am able to find the credential fields and enter text, but how does one simulate a button click?  The line in the source code is:      It seems I would either invoke the onclick property of the button or make a direct call to doLogin(), but I am unsure how to do either. Thanks for the help so far.
You need to look at what the JavaScript function doLogin is doing.  It is most likely submitting the form.
Open new browser window on click of a form button
  I want to open a new browser and load a page from the file system (which will be created on clicking that button). My app is a java servlet. Basically I am allowing users to change some HTML on their website. On clicking the button the user get's to see a preview page, that shows what the page looks like with the changes made.     What would be the easiest way to do this and what issues can you see, and possibly how we would we get around them.     I see an issue, for example, if the browser window tries to open the file immediately, it won't even exist. So there needs to perhaps be some delay before trying to read the file.  
  This can be done using java script     window.open('url','name',....)      you can pass parameters in this function.     google for "javascript window.open function"     Cheers  
  Maybe you can use jQuery/AJAX or a similar technique to post the data to the server first and then open it in a new window.     see the jQuery documentation for an example:    jQuery Post Example    
  if there is not much data to pass for preview page, you may pass it as url params instead of using jQuery. If data is large it is better to use jQuery. :)     as    http://www.xyz.com?name=   "name".....  
  I'm not familliar with java servlets, but can't you keep the uploaded html in a server-side session variable, display the contents in your preview page, then save the contents of the variable out to the file system once the user accepts the changes ?  
  You could use JavaScript. On the button you add:       and within the script part of the page you write a function like       and in your Servlet you just wait for the file to appear before delivering it.  
How to stop reloading Java applet when changing "overflow" style
  When I change the "overflow" style on document.body from "hidden" to "auto", it forces a reload of a Java applet that is on the page.      I have set overflow to hidden because most of the time I don't want scrollbars to be visible on the page, but I'd like to enable them without losing state in my applet.     Is this possible, or is there another way I should be going about this problem?  
  It's not possible.  Different browsers behave in different ways; some reload the applet with the slightest DOM change while others keep it running even if you set display: none.  In my experience the Java Plugin has very little control over this.     You have to save the state of your applet either by:       Reading the state into a JavaScript variable via LiveConnect and then writing it back to the applet afterwards     Storing the state in static variables and checking their value when the Applet starts up    
Split java strings in Rhino
  I'm trying to split a java string in a Rhino javascript program       which give me the error       The Rhino docs mentioned that all the javascript String.prototype methods (like match, split, etc.) are available on java string if they're not already provided by java.lang.String. Any ideas on what's going on here?  
  It may be that you're using it incorrectly.   Doesn't split require a string parameter?  
  Take a look at the Java docs:    http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/java/lang/String.html       Doesn't seem to be a 0 parameter constructor for the split method.  You gotta pass it a regular expression.     Also, for further clarification, the split method returns a string array, it's not a void method like the way you've used it in your sample code.  
  split takes an argument, which is the regular expression you want to use to split your tokens.       http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/java/lang/String.html    
  Rhino provides only the methods that    java.lang.String    is missing and      split      obviously isn't one of them.      In order to use JavaScript's implementation of    split   , you'll have to convert Java string to JavaScript one:       var s = String(new java.lang.String("1 2 3")); // Also valid: var s = "" + new java.lang.String("1 2 3"); print(s.split()); // 1 2 3    
  Not exactly the same context, but may help someone.     I use the JavaScript function split() in Rhino.     To get things working, I follow the pattern :       I suppose that "" + forces Rhino to use a JavaScript type of String.     When I forget to add "" + then I got the message    
How to drag from browser area and deposit to the explorer area?
  Sometime ago I was facing the problem the other way around: how to drag an item (folder/file) from an explorer window (be it windows explorer, linux nautilus etc.) to the browser window - that is, the drag starts in one application and ends in the browser. Since I had control over the browser, I was able to intercept the dragend event: the one which interested me.     Now, I want to do this from the browser to the file explorer application: much like when you drag an image from firefox and drop it in a folder.     My main problem is that while I can check when the drag event exited the browser window, I have no ideea how to get the location where the drag event finished.     My ideea is to create a signed java applet and somehow track the mouse movement on the desktop - but this seems a little more than overkill.     Any pointers on this?  
  You won't be able to do this with JavaScript. JS is sandboxed in the browser and can't interact with anything outside.  
That I know. I am going to use JS only to detect the dragexit event from the html document, and pass control to the java signed applet. At least, that's the idea at this time.
  According to your justification is is not simple, but it can be managed. There is class called DataFlavor. You had to use D   D mechanism introduce in java using Transferable objects and provide correct mime-types and corresponding conversion. The problem is which mime-type will be accepted by explorer. I hope this help.   
I guess it will accept most of the main mime-types. I believe now that when the dragexit happens, I need to pass control over to the java applet and from there construct the Transferable objects.
What are FTL files
  I am new to a project and have to learn it inside out.  I see a lot of files with the extension    .ftl    in them.  I'n not sure what they are.  I know they can be modified and the user sees changes in the front end   
  Freemarker template files I believe.       http://freemarker.org/    
    http://filext.com/file-extension/FTL    points to    http://freemarker.sourceforge.net/    , does that help?  
  Have a look    here   .     Following files have FTL extension:       Family Tree Legends Family File     FreeMarker Template     Future Tense Texture    
  freemarker combines java objects and view side (HTML/JQuery) contents in a single viewable template on a browser.  
  FTL stands for FreeMarker Template.     It is very useful when you want to follow the MVC (Model View Controller) pattern.      The idea behind using the MVC pattern for dynamic Web pages is that you separate the designers (HTML authors) from the programmers.   
  An ftl file could just have a series of html tags just as a JSP page or it can have freemarker template coding for representing the objects passed on from a controller java file file.  But, its actual ability is to combine the contents of a java class and view/client side stuff(html/ JQuery/ javascript etc). It is quite similar to velocity. You could map a method or object of a class to a freemarker (.ftl) page and use it as if it is a variable or a functionality created in the very page. ping me for more details..! cheers..! :)  
    .FLT    is a file extension which is a mod for Faster than light , installed by Slipstream Mod Manager, which requires Java.  
Best way to grab website content externally
  There's a search site whose search results are generated dynamically by javascript. So the user enters a query, and the site displays the content on the page, without refreshing.      I need to grab those search results programmatically (say from a Java program or a perl/python script).      So ideally, I can launch my program with 100 queries as user inputs, and then the program would hit that website with each query and spit out on my screen all the search results as returned by the website.     The obvious problem is that the site is in javasript instead of simple HTML, so sending a URL request and parsing the resultant output is not going to work (as the source code for this page is always just a bunch of reference to various .js files).     Given the above conditions, what are my options?  
Almost all search provider has some APIs, but the free ones impose some constraints about how often can you search, how many times in a day and how many results you get.
This site has no API. And assume there's no limits on how many searches I can do or how often.
Can you give some hints about which site you want to use for searching? If the search is a local search, you could ask a publicly API-ed search provider to search only within this site.
Ok. Here's the site: http://tinyurl.com/ley3eh
  Install Firebug, study the requests that are made by the site's javascript and mimic them in your program. Chances are there is a single request that needs to be made and the resulds would come in some nice form like JSON  
  Unless the search provider gives you an API to work with (either via backchannel agreement or a publicly available one), then nothing you do will be likely to work for very long.       You may go to great pains to fool the site into believing you are an ordinary website user.  Then, they will make some minor change to how their site works (because they have no idea someone is using it in the fashion you are) and all of a sudden your hack won't work.  Sometime later, they may notice that you are using them in this fashion, and detect your usage and flat out block it.     Basically, unless they give you an API, you are essentially stealing, and should expect to receive all the courtesy that deserves... none.     Lest you think I am judging you, I'll let you know I speak from experience ;)  
What about Dyanmic Data Exchange? Can't you use that to grab any content from any window in windows? So I can just grab the content from my browser, and parse it in my program?
@Saobi, you do realize that DDE is very, very old and not used in modern web browsers?
what problems will I run into with DDE ?
  Javascript does http requests almost just like a browser does, once you figure out what they are you can try to re-create them in perl/python/etc. With Firefox+Firebug you can see the requests in the 'Net' panel.     Things you might have to take into account are user-agent string, cookies, the fact that sometimes the returned data is meant to be run/interpreted by Javascript etc. Maybe your language of choice has a nice httpbrowser class you can use?             Just took a look, searching for IBM, took the post data from Firebug, replaced newlines with '   ' and put it after the request url:       but it returns       and no data.. So it looks like you have to script a post request. Looking at their restrictions and guidelines, maybe you should just get in touch and ask if there's a public API?  
Ok I used the Net panel monitoring of Firebug. And whenever I submit a query on that website, the request is a POST, but the URL has  search.dwr appended to it, not the actual query I submitted.
The search is handled by Javascript, so it can put together and use any url it wants, obviously. You'd have to look into the source to see how it does that, or just see what it posts where and try to mimic that in your code. Is the search site public?
But that POST request I saw in Firebug, how can I dig deeper to see the equivalent http request (preferably with a search query appended) ? Yes this is a public site.
The POST request *is* the http request, the Net panel should also show what post data was sent along. You can try taking that apart and tacking it onto the URL it's posted to as GET parameters, but that won't necessarily work (depends on if the server supports GET queries). But maybe you need to use curl or somesuch to do an actual post from your script. Basically the script has to behave like a browser.
Saw your sample search above. So it looks like this is not easily doable? You managed to figure out the exact request to send. But that's not enough....
That's right :-) As I said, you'd need to re-create the POST request in your scripting language. For PHP, I'd point you at http://www.php.net/curl and http://www.php.net/manual/en/function.curl-setopt.php , search for 'post'.
How to relate ga:campaign and ga:pagePath (content) on Google Analytics Export API?
  Using custom reports you are able to drill down on a specific campaign and then choose the Landing Page or content page that the individual visitor choose.  When I try to retrieve the same information through the Google Analytics Export API, I get an error if I try to relate those two dimensions in my feed.  Is there any success story about getting this information together.  I know is possible, we just don't know what is the correct combination.     Since I had no progress on this issue during the last week I thought about giving a little more information.  I am presenting below a screen shot of an actual report of the Google Analytics UI givin the information that I am trying to pull and I am getting no info.  Basically the campaing information group by the pagePage landed.  So I am able to know who clicked on my emails and where that person landed.             I just found other people with the same questions on the    Google Analytic Help Forum   .    
  I just tried it with some GA data. It seems to be picky about what metric you join it to but ga:pageviews works. Both ga:campaign and ga:pagePath are dimensions and you need to join them to a metric. You can reference GA documentation    here    regarding what are the valid combinations. As an example, I managed to retrieve a really long report using (replace with your profile id):       Hope this helps.  
Thanks for your reply.  I am trying to execute your sample with my table id, but I cannot get it to work.  I am getting an Authorization Required.  I am authenticating with Google Analytics before requesting the URI.   Let me know if you know what steps to take before executing the script.  Thanks again.
You need to authenticate to GA separately by sending an extra header in the http request. See http://code.google.com/apis/gdata/articles/using_cURL.html and http://code.google.com/apis/analytics/docs/gdata/1.0/gdataProtocol.html
  If you are using    java    or    servlet   , you can use authentication method in analytics api to authenticate first, and then you can retrieve data from the profile of that user.  
Servlets and AJAX communication
  i do have a communication probleme here between my java servlet and an ajax request. more about it:     Absolute path to the index.html (including javascript/ajax request):   http://localhost:9080/chat/index.html       In the same folder the servlet:  MyChat.class     And the Request is working like this:     var url = "http://localhost:9080/chat";     var name = document.getElementById("username").getAttribute("value"); var message = document.getElementById("message").getAttribute("value");     var tosend = name+","+message;     request.open('GET', url, true); request.send(tosend); request.onreadystatechange = interpretRequest;     I'm having a formular where a user just types in the name and the message and "username" and "message" are  tags in my html file. The ajax request works, that's sure, but it doesn't communicate with the servlet. I also don't have an idea where the output from System.out.println() goes. No log file is filled ... And the servlet looks like this:     public class MyChat extends HttpServlet {     private static final long serialVersionUID = 1L;       }  
Try calling the servlet from the address bar to find out if the problem is in the JavaScript or the servlet. (Something like localhost:9080/chat/index.html?username=Lenni)
won't work because i'm getting the username from an input tag. looks like:     
Well, then just dumb it down a little and return a Hello World and try that.
  The URL you've specified isn't to your servlet.     Just like the URL to the index page is    http://   server   :   port   /   webapp name   /   resource      the URL to your servlet needs a mapping in the    web.xml    file that corresponds to the      resource      part of the url.     For example, if you had a controller servlet you'd expect something like the following in your web.xml:       The URLs that would invoke the 'controller' servlet would then follow the form    http://   server   :   port   /   webapp name   /   anything   .do   .  
just added the web.xml. it's within the folder where the html file is and my class file. as i start the request i'm getting a request status that is not 200 so ... request fails
The web.xml file need to be in a WEB-INF directory in the root of the web app.  Take a look at this tutorial for the details on packaging a web app - http://java.sun.com/j2ee/tutorial/1_3-fcs/doc/WebComponents.html
and where do i have to place the class file then? :-(
The classes go in WEB-INF/classes.  If you use ANT the WAR task will do it all for you.
Share an applet across many jsp pages
  In my web application, a series of jsp pages are navigated. These jsp pages appear on the Right Hand side (frame) of the screen. On the left frame, I have an applet.     This applet is common to all jsps. From all of the jsps, I want to invoke a method on the applet. The javascript code is inside of each jsp.     Is there a way to do this ? Any approaches, suggestion, Code snippets most welcome.     The applet basically displays an image. Based on the user interaction in the jsp pages, the image needs to change/rotate and so on. But the applet is common to all and should not be loaded on each of the jsps load. Thats why I am looking for a way for all jsps to communicate to the single applet (via javascripts of course).  
  Its possible.See here for details    How to invoke invisible applet methods     
But I dont want to embed the applet in each of the jsps. That is the catch. The applet needs to be invoked from a jsp where it is NOT embedded.
  Let's say that the Applet is in Frame F1, your javascript is in Frame F2 then you can call your Applet method from F2 with :       Your Frameset :       The page with with the applet is       Bye.  
Using Bing as local search
  For an ajax app I'm doing, I was using the google local search api to help enter in address info. For example, if the user needs to fill out employment information, typing in the business name would provide a list of matching businesses, then clicking one would fill out all of the address fields. However, we can't use it because of the restrictions on google's api. We have a closed https app which just makes it out of the question.     Because of the https requirement, we have to use the server as a proxy which means a pretty lenient usage restriction. That makes Bing a good choice. The REST api seems like a great way to go, and it works well enough, but with one problem. The center point location needs to be specified as a latitude and longitude. Users will be supplying the information in a zipcode or city/state format. This clearly means geocoding. What is the best route to take? Is there a good way to get around geocoding that I'm missing? Looking at the Bing APIs, it appears that geocoding is offered as a SOAP web service that costs money. If I'm doing that should I just use google maps for geocoding - there's an enterprise version of maps with https? Any other suggestions?     I am using Java on the server and obviously javascript on the front end. It's a javascript heavy app, so a javascript solution would be welcome as well.  
  So if I'm reading your question right, you need a way to go from zip code/city/state to longitude and latitude?     If that's the case, there are a number of free and paid databases out there that have this information.  The    free       ones    are generally not 100% up to date, but the paid ones are pretty reasonably priced and would include periodic updates with the latest and greatest data.  
so you're suggesting I do the geocoding on the server because it's limited enough?
@Russell - A couple ways you could do it. You could do the geocoding on your server with a database (as I suggested in my answer) or you could create a service on your server that you call via HTTPS which would then call out to Bing/Google via plain old HTTP.  This would keep the pages as HTTPS, but just use normal HTTP under the hood - if that's acceptable from a security perspective on your end anyways.
That is actually how we interface with Bing now, but it doesn't do geocoding. We could do the geocoding with google, but it has request limits that our server would surpass.
  Yahoo has geocoding with rate limit of 5000 per day on a REST service.       http://developer.yahoo.com/maps/rest/V1/geocode.html       Have you looked into Yahoo! Maps with YQL?  
signed applet gives AccessControlException: access denied, when calling from javascript
  I have an easy self-signed an applet (done with keytool and the jarsigner):       Basically, what it does, is that it executes 'notepad c:/hello.txt'.     Then i embed the applet in html:       When i visit the page, JRE starts and asks me if i want to start this applet and if i trust it. I press ok. Then notepad starts - as it should. No problem here.     But then i add this into the HTML-page:       Now when i press on this text, calc should start - right? But this gives me:         whats up with this? Why does it give me a security exception now, but it could start notepad before?    
  The Java 2 security model requires (roughly) that every frame on the stack must be granted a  permission for the access control context (acc) to have that permission. JavaScript is on the stack and does not have file access permissions.  
He could also have used the AccessController.doPrivileged API to elevate the privileges of the  javascript function call to the one of the signed applet. http://www.inf.puc-rio.br/~roberto/java/jdk1.2/docs/guide/security/doprivileged.html
Thanks a lot, this solved my problem in a nice and clean way.
  Solved the problem with, in Java:       and then in JavaScript:    
  I agree : it is prohibited to manipulate a signed applet from javascript, and the workaround is to rewrite the applet tag in javascript in the page document.     I found this source with a bit of theory proving we are right   http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/deployment/applet/security.html#jsNote    
  Actually, calling applet from javascript behaves as calling unsigned applet (as specified in the jsnote:    http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/deployment/applet/security.html#jsNote   .  That is fine and is valid when you're using a class you are not allowed to change, but since you're the author of the java class you can always wrap that specific method you need to call from javascript to be executed in the privileged mode, like this:       And it should work ok. (This is what is suggested in the upvoted comment by @Jean-Philippe Jodoin but the link provided there is broken)  
Communcation between Java and applet
  How do I get the (updated) value of Java Class's variable which is dynamically modified from an applet?     The problem here is, since the applet is loaded in separate class loaders the updated value is not available when the applet is loaded a second and subsequent times.  
Do you mean server side Java, or JavaScript as your tag indicate?
In fact simple desktop java....java script is there to indicate the use of applet by the java script from an html page
I'm not sure what you are trying to achieve - are there two classes, one in an applet and another, where?
Is this question still open? If yes, please make clear what you want to do. Is your applet embedded in your desktop Java application, or in a web browser?
  See    Java-to-Javascript Communication   ,    Java - Javascript interaction   , and    Interaction without LiveConnect    for JavaScript interaction.  
  See    http://rostislav-matl.blogspot.com/2011/10/java-applets-building-with-maven.html    for working example.  
Open an HttpURLConnection in a browser
  I am working on a jsp page which uses a bean to create an OAuth authenticated HttpURLConnection and am able to connect successfully.  Is there anyway that I can take that open HttpURLConnection and somehow display the contents in a browser window?  
  The only way to display the contents of a stream from another web page in a jsp is if you do not get the output stream yourself. If I remember right, the output stream for a jsp is automatically retrieved when an output character outside the scriptlet tags is envountered by the parser.      This would be better done in a servlet proper rather than a jsp. Just get the url connection, get the output stream and pipe it to the servlet's output stream using a loop.   
Wicket  &  jQuery Overlap/Collision
  I am currently working on a web app using Wicket and started using jQuery core (UI also) in it today. I ran into an issue I troubleshooted as a jQuery function (show(), slideDown()) colliding with some of the javascript Wicket auto-generated for an external form link.     Before I get deeper into this project I am wondering if anyone has had similar experiences. Are there a lot of places where the jQuery effects/actions collide with Wicket generated javascript/HTML? Are there clean ways to avoid this, or mitigate it?     I have seen    Wicketext    as possibly a cleaner "integrator" of the two, but mostly it seems to just be a way of doing more of the jQuery-ish code in the Java instead of JS.  
  This is an interesting problem since jQuery occupies it's own namespace.  I'm guessing that there is a conflict with the $ jQuery variable.  To get around this you can have jQuery occupy a different namespace like so:       You can do this after you've loaded both sets of code and the $ will be returned to its original value.  A bit of a headache but it can fix things in a pinch.  See    using jQuery with other libraries    for more info.  
Thanks codeincarnate! I'll give it a try on monday and see what happens.
So this didn't work, but I believe it to be another issue with Wicket generated JS. Had it been a library collision I think your answer is spot on so I am accepting it.
Java ScriptEngine: using value on Java side?
  In a Java program I'm invoking a user-defined JavaScript program:       Now I would like to use '   result   ': how can I have an access to it? Can I identify it as an array (Can I iterate threw its members), a    String   , an    Integer   , etc... ?     Thanks       EDITED   : I just know that my user gave me a script returning the last value. I don't know anything about this value. Is it a    String   , an array, etc.. ? I don't known but I want to use it.  
  This    link    may be helpful. It seems that the best you can do is to rely on an implementation specific class.  
  Except perhaps for simple values, I would rather let the scripting engine coerce its values to Java types.       Even if you can't edit the script, you could take the return value and pass it through your own generated script to do the coercion. This assumes you know something about the value being returned.             EDIT: since nothing is known about the return value, I would first test it using Java (   getClass()   ) to see if it was one of the java.lang types. If the returned object is from some API private to the library, I would introspect it using the scripting language (in this case JavaScript), possibly coercing it to a Java type or pushing its properties into some Java data structure during the process.     My JavaScript is rusty, but John Leach's tutorial looks quite good:    JavaScript Introspection   .     (You may be able to use Java reflection, but since the engine implementation could vary between Java versions/JREs/JavaScript engines, I wouldn't rely on it.)  
  This question was asked ages ago, but the answers still seemed correct. In case it's of interest to anyone else trying to pass complex objects between Java and Javascript, I wanted to present my solution.     I wrote a script that converts the NativeObject to (in-memory) JSON objects (actually I use MongoDB's BSON-based objects, but you should just be able to substitute 1-1 for JSONArray and JSONObject in the sample code below).     So for example, say I have a (user) script "create_object_script", which "returns" some object or array of interest, then I can convert it into JSON (ie a list of hashmaps) as follows:       Obviously if you have control over the "create_object_script" script you can do this in a single step; my scripts are user-generated so hiding away this complexity is necessary - the users just write scripts where the "return value" is the final line.     I gisted the "parsing_script"    here    to keep the length of this post down.     Functionally this works very nicely; I haven't developed in JS much so it's possible there are more efficient ways of doing this. (Note I always need my results in a list, if you don't then you could pass in a BasicDBObject "outObj" and write to that instead in the singleton case).     Hope this helps someone who finds themselves in my situation at 1am last night!  
Passing variable name into GWT's JSNI
  Using the JavaScript Native Interface of GWT I can perform the following:       Which will return the contents of a JavaScript variable called foo.     How can I expand upon this to accept the variable name as a parameter? ie:       Simply using the variable name inside the native code like one would to call:       results in the JavaScript hunting for a declaration of a variable    named    foo and not one named with the    value of    foo.     Thanks very much!  
  Does        not work?     You may also want to look at the GWT 'Dictionary' class. It's ideal for loading values, i.e. parameters from the host page.  
Brilliant! I'll look into the Dictionary too although we're aiming for re-usable JSP tags which can grab particular session attributes and dump them to pages where they're needed. It's not perfect but the Dictionary still requires two things to think about and the tags give us easy validation against a TLD. Thanks!
Should web developers still learn JavaScript?
  Now that frameworks like GWT, Morfik etc exist which compile Java client side code into major JavaScript dialects, is it still worth learning JavaScript?  
  In my book,    yes   .     I'm a strong believer in understanding the underlying technology beneath whatever toolkits you're using.     Abstractions are leaky - you'll run into trouble down the line if you try to get away with only understanding a high-level toolkit, and not the underlying technology.  Sooner or later you'll need to debug your project at the JavaScript (or whatever) level.  
Not really worth it's own answer, so put here. If you use one of the Java->Javascript converters, you lose a lot of javascript features such as dynamic typing, and the ability to use functions as proper objects. I don't really see why people look at javascript as a low level language. Combined with frameworks (written in javascript) such as jQuery, it's a easy to use and powerful language.
@Macha: Well said.  JS in it's own right is extremely powerful (and very different from Java).  Why cover it up with abstractions?
Agreed. Using stuff like Gwt without knowing JS is like using some database tool without knowing SQL. While that may work, you're going to get better results if you actually know what's going on.
  Understanding the technology behind your framework reduces the time spending on debugging the things you do with your framework. so in my opinion it's always good to know whats going on behind the scene.  
  Stretching this further...      Should you learn assembly language nowaday with so many higher level languages?     Should you learn how to do basic arithmetic like subtraction and addition by hand when now we have calculator and computer that can do this for you?       Well, I'd say maybe you won't need to if you don't have any reason to go deep down, but someone will have to still.       As with all things, there is a balance.  Know that it will be to your disadvantage if you don't know the lower level stuffs, but sometimes it is necessary to skip it so you can be deep in something else.  You have to admit there are so much technology out there that you won't be able to be an expert in all things.  In that case, knowing someone else who does is a good thing.     So pick your choice and go with what interest you.  If you think you are interested in learning JavaScript go for it.  If not, you can stick to your level of abstraction and get a JavaScript buddy that can help you when you are stuck.  
  Yes,     ...and I speak with experience: I've never learned javascript and only used parts of it, when I encountered it in google searches for questions.     Now that I'm building a Web application, I notice that not all abstractions away from javascript have the desired functionality, and I need to go into javascript to solve it.     I notice that I miss the fundamental knowledge I have with other languages, just like I miss the 'javascript programming language' book (I'm not sure it exists but I have similar copies for C, C++ and Java). So today I ordered    Javascript:The good parts    and I will learn it...  
Crockford's The Good Parts is not really a beginner's book.  I suggest you first start with Flanagan's Javascript The Definitive guide, and then move on to The Good Parts.  http://www.amazon.com/JavaScript-Definitive-Guide-David-Flanagan/dp/0596101996/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8 &s =books &qid =1246804047 &sr =8-1
I would suggest cross-referencing the two; for the language features that Crockford leaves out of The Good Parts, I wouldn't spend too much time studying them while reading The Definitive Guide. You may eventually need to understand those features, but part of Crockford's point is that a bunch of things in the Javascript language were poorly designed and really shouldn't be there. I've found that, for the most part, I've agreed with him. (I also learned a fair amount from him.)
Dreas: Thanks for the tip, I will get the book soon so I will see if I still miss some fundamentals. Note that I've learned already a lot of different languages, so I will probably understand more of it that a full beginner.
  I think the reality of browser bugs will make being able to diagnose and understand the generated JavaScript necessary for a long time. I worked with a Spreadsheet company for OS/2, and they had to read the generated assembler from the C++ code because the IBM compiler would generate buggy machine code at times. So while they may not have known enough Assembler to write a whole project in it, they certainly had to know enough to track down problems.     That being said, there are also many web frameworks that require you to code your own javascript, and a given toolkit won't necessarily do everything that you need to do without directly writing some javascript. You can choose frameworks that avoid it if you prefer, but it isn't at all obvious that, unlike say Assembler for application development, the Web development community has decided to abstract away any involvement with it. You may well end up on projects that need it.  
    ABSOLUTELY   .  In my opinion, abstraction is important, but knowing how that abstraction works is equally as important.     I've seen developers who live and die by their frameworks (javascript: jquery, yui, etc... or php: zend, cake, etc...), but have no clue how to do anything productive without them.     Who would you rather be (or hire)?  The guy who knows how everything works, but improves his productivity by using frameworks and libraries... or the guy who uses these resources with no idea how they actually work?  
  Actually, drawing a parallel to assembly language is a bit missing the point. Assembly was platform specific and the move to C enabled a certain level of platform agnosticism, allowing the developer to be more productive on multiple platforms. Hence, there was a real productivity effect.     Learning all your rich web chops on something like GWT is more limiting. It is, after all, based on Java, and the web is way larger in scope than just Java. You'd be seriously limiting yourself if all you know is GWT but not the inner workings of the generated Javascript (Can't comment on Morfik as I don't know it).     However, employing something like JQuery in order to be more productive when coding Javascript is much better. JQuery can be used on any browser running on any OS, so it doesn't limit you.   
  I'd say yes. I've met people who claimed to    know    javascript, when all they could do is do a couple of jquery function calls. Javascript (ECMAscript) is a beatiful little (ok, not so little) language.     Abstracting a bit from javascript - define "worth learning". This kind of thinking was always a conundrum to me. Are you, per chance, afraid of learning something new?     I guess, this kind of thinking is what really separates a coder from a programmer.  
  A web developer who does not know Javascript is like an auto mechanic who does not know how to change a tire.  
  JavaScript is the core of interactive client-side development. It is absolutely essential. After you know JavaScript you might decide to try out other things that compile to JavaScript if you find them easier.     Also if you want to work professional in web development for some company then you are going to have to know JavaScript. Besides, JavaScript is getting more and more popular as the execution of the language in the browser gets faster and as it becomes more popular in Server-side development as well.  
Accessing the JavaScript Table DOM in a Java Servlet
  I want to write reusable code that takes an HTML table from a JSP and converts it to Excel format to be exported to the user.  I want to take advantage of the HTML DOM Table Object rather than parse the HTML in Java to extract the same information.  The biggest advantage to this would be inspecting each cell for checkboxes, buttons, etc. so as to remove them before writing the cells to Excel.  In my mind the setup would go something like this:     HTML Table:                   a href="javascript: export();">Export to Excel    /a>             table id="exportTable">           ...             /table>           JavaScript:               function export() {           var table = document.getElementById("exportTable");           // Send table object to Servlet somehow         }           The JavaScript would go in some sort of common.js so that the concept could be used on any table in any page of the site.     ** UPDATE **     JSPs will be using Java objects to generate the table, but the table itself will be different every time.  I'm looking for a generic solution whereby I can get the Table's DOM structure, thereby utilizing the table.rows and table.cells that is already done, inspect each cell to remove tags I don't want in the Excel (such as buttons, checkboxes, etc), and write that out to the user with the response type set to excel.  Does that make more sense?  
HTML tables can be interpreted by Excel.  That said, all you need is the markup and a content-type of "application/ms-excel"
Apparently you are generating the table in the JSP so why don't you just output the data you are creating the Table from? For the actual JavaScript implementation just take a look at Ajax functionality and Dom Manipulation with jQuery (http://jquery.com)
I don't understand, is there a question in here?
  POST the table to the server. If you want to access the DOM like you would in JavaScript, you are going to need    Rhino   . But I recommend just sticking with something easier to drop in like    JDOM   . Then echo back the table with the content-type modified in the header to be "application/ms-excel".  
  I'd serialize the data from the cells into a simple JSON object, then use one of the many    JSON libraries    available on the Java-side to convert it back into a usable object.     Something like this:       This uses the Public Domain    JSON.stringify()    routine, available directly    here   .     You can now take this string, pass it to a server, and re-hydrate the object in Java-land.  You'll get a multidimensional array of values corresponding directly to the contents of the table.     NOTE: This retrieves the    entire    table.  If you just want to get the table's body, you'll have to modify the above code to iterate over the tBodies, like this:    
Issue with IE security on page opened from javascript
  I have a Java web application running in JBOSS with Tomcat with two web applications (contexts) running on it.     A button press on one of the applications opens runs a javascript command to open a new window with a page from the other.     The problem I seem to be having is that this raises a security alert in IE. with the following message:             I can't really ask my customer to add an exception to "http://" what are the likely causes for it not picking up the site?     The browser is correctly pointed at the full url for the page (Ie www.something.net:8080/blah/somepage.jsp) the browser is IE7 with enhanced security running on windows 2003.  
"I can't really ask my customer to add an exception to "http://"" - you can ask, but they won't be able to do it. IE doesn't let you enter exceptions that are that wide-ranging.
  Do the two applications have different domains?  IE is preventing the cross-site scripting.       Can you not just have a link to the other site?     EDIT: If this is on Windows Server 2003, then the only way that I've managed to get around it is to disable to enhanced browser security.  If this is the case, then you shouldn't really be browsing from a server in the first place.     Edit2:I'm guessing that it is the enhanced browser security that is doing this.     Check out this link:    http://support.microsoft.com/kb/815141    on info about it. Your choices are to either to disable it, add an exception for that site, or use another browser.  
No they both have the same domain one is www.example.com/app1/page.jsp the other is www.example.com/app2/anotherpage.jsp
see edit2 in answer
My issue is that there is no "site" to add as an exception. It's complaining about "http://" not another website.
Can you post the code?
Unfortunately I can't post the source A: Because of an NDA B: The Javaprojects are Huge The javascript that loads the page is just window.open("URL"); nothing special
Thats irritating I just noticed that SO had parsed "h-t-t-p" as a link...
  IE Enhanced Security Configuration is deliberately designed to prevent general purpose browsing from servers. Folks who want to do workstation-style browsing and just happen to be on a server SKU should disable ESC.     What's the exactly line of code?    window.open("http://fullURL", etc)   , or something like var    v=window.open("about:blank"); v.location.href=etc    ?  
it's window.open("path"); If thats the case then I needn't worry about it though I was just testing that an install had worked by running it locally.
  You need to uninstall "Explorer Enhanced Security", which is on by default in Windows Servers, before IE will act like a normal browser. :)     Workstations shouldn't get this problem.  
Gantt Chart - JavaScript / JSP / Java / Groovy / Grails
  I'm looking to add the ability to create a gantt chart to my web application. Currently my application is Grails based running on Tomcat.     Research around SO seems to indicate that JFreeChart (   http://www.jfree.org/jfreechart/   ) and Google Charts both might provide me with the ability to create charts that I could mold into what I need.     Before I went down that route, though, I wanted to see if there was something that is more specifically tailored to project management type charts.     [Edit: I am open to using JavaScript modules as well]  
  If you are not averse to Javascript, you could take a look at    http://code.google.com/p/jsgantt/    
Wow. That's pretty slick. I'm definitely going to consider that.
  try :    http://www.fusioncharts.com/free/       it is free (and you can get commercial one)     it is flash based .. you can customized it from your gsp.  
  Have a look at    http://www.bryntum.com/products/gantt    . 100% JavaScript based on ExtJS, not free though.      DISCLAIMER: I wrote it.  
Unkown error when calling Java applet from JavaScript
  Here's the JavaScript (on an aspx page):       pdfXML is got from pdfData which is a hidden field on the page containing the XML that contains base64 encoded pdf data which is passed to the java applet.  All the other values being passed have within range sensible values.     The XML is like this       The contents of the element PDF is a lot bigger than displayed here     The signature of the Java method is:       It seems that when the size of the PDF data gets large the applet fails to be called and the error 'Unknown Error' is thrown in the JS.     The PDF doc the data of which is producing this error is about 4Mb in size.     Many thanks in advance for any help.  
Does the WriteDocument method exit successfully? It might be worth adding a try/catch inside if it's not possible to tell.
Since QA saw this error I've stuck some logging in right at the beginning of the WriteDocument function (it's a signed trusted app so I can write to a log file in the user's home directory) and that doesn't happen.   I'm beginning to suspect that the failure is happening at the method invocation.  I just don't know why? I've added some further clarification to the question.
Does your applet tag contain mayscript="mayscript" ?
Also you could try to get the form field value from within the applet and not pass it in as parameter?
No it doesn't.  I wasn't aware of that attribute and it's usage. I wasn't aware the Java applet could access form elements directly.  That might be something to try. I'm still a little concerned that I don't know why this is happening.
  Thanks for responding chaps but I've sorted the problem.     How?  I took JRE 1.6 update 12 off and stuck update 7 (which is the version we reccomend to those who use our website) on my machine.     Why update 12 stopped working I don't know.  Why update 7 is stable I don't know. [sigh]     It's things like this that make me glad I work mostly with a 'long time between releases' framework like .net.  
Which serverside Java technology to use with ExtJS
  We are plannnig to upgrade the UI framework for our 6-8 year old application written using Struts/JSP/EJB to ExtJS. Just curious as to what is the most popular Java technology on the server people have been using. We were looking into several alternatives like       DWR     RestEasy     Restlet     Struts-Json       We are diving more towards using DWR but just wanted to know if the programming community has some food for thought on this.     For backward compatiblity reasons the migration will happen incrementally and during that period we will try to make ExtJS coexist with the old Web1.0 style pages. We are not changing anything on the business tier but just the web tier will change from JSP to ExtJs pages.  
  If you're going to use ExtJS anyway, have you considered using ExtGWT instead? That'll give you    much    better Java integration.  
but that would be at expense of loosing control over generated content. What if your website is not just EXT, but has twitter Bootstrap frontend as well?
  ExtGWT if you are willing to go with GWT, or I would recommend Metro(or any Java RESTful implementation - JSR 311) + ExtJS, it works great.  
  We've been using    Restlet    with good success, and it can be used on applications that aren't 100% RESTful (we've got areas where we're a bit cavalier).  It's not a full solution, but it comes with decent integrations to other technologies.  For instance we generate our XHTML/CSS pages using Restlet's support for the Apache FreeMarker template generator.       Our generated pages happen use    jQuery   , and ExtJS ought to work equally well.  Restlet has a    GWT module    too.  
  Also have a look at    Jersey   . It's a very useful implementation of JAX-RS (JSR 311) that is easy to integrate into an existing project like yours.     If I were you I'd create a separate package (or even EAR/WAR) with classes that just talked to your existing EJBs and were exposed as REST services that ExtJS can communicate with.  
I wonder, how would you serve non REST content through Jersey e.g. templated htmls and other stuff. I mean something similar to what @Jim ferrans did with RestLet.
You could use it with a templating library like Mustache (http://mustache.github.com/)
  I've been using for similiar project    jabsorb   , which is very similiar to DWR, but conforms to JSON-RPC.  
  You might want to check out Myna (   http://mynajs.org   ). This is a Server-Side JavaScript application platform that is deployed as a J2EE war file. Being server-side JavaScript it integrates well with Ext. In fact, all the internal management UI is written in Ext. Myna has several features you may find useful:       Web-based adminstrator application. No need to edit XML files     Web-based Database adminstrator. Can run queries, create/edit/drop tables, and generate Myna and SQL code from GUI     Centralized Datasource management and pooling DB connections     A Web Service class that supports SOAP, XML-RPC, JSON-RPC, and MYNA-JSON with Ext.Direct coming soon!     Support for handling PUT,POST,GET, and DELETE HTTP requests     Support for loading POJO's in your JavaScript code (Via Rhino)     Runtime Object Relatinal Mapping. No need to edit XML files or recompile classes when the database tables change     Javascript preprocessor supports multi-line SQL queries with implicit prepared statements and typed parameters       Queries support paging and returning total rows, which works well with Ext's grids and PagingToolbar     Full Disclosure: I'm the primary developer for Myna      
  My team also was using using Struts in the past.  We have moved forward and are using DWR, and we love it.  Our experience with DWR and Ext has been great.  So much boiler plate code, both with DWR on the Java end, and Ext on the JavaScript end, has been reduced.  There is also a ExtJsWithDwr project to help with integrating the two:    http://github.com/BigLep/ExtJsWithDwr   .    
Regexp to match Javascript string literals with a specific keyword using Java
  I'm trying to match chunks of JS code and extract string literals that contain a given keyword using Java.     After trying to come up with my own regexp to do this, I ended up modifying this generalized string-literal matching regexp (Pattern.COMMENTS used when building the patterns in Java):       to the following       The test cases:       The regexp correctly doesn't match line 1 and correctly matches line 2.     However, in line 3, instead of just matching "testkeyword", it matches the chunk       which is wrong - the regexp matched the first double quote and did not terminate at the second double quote, going all the way till the end of line.     Does anyone have any ideas on how to fix this?     PS: Please keep in mind that the Regexp has to correctly handle escaped single and double quote characters inside of string literals (which the generalized matcher already did).  
  After much revision (see edit history, viewers at home :), I believe this is my final answer:    
It does when I test it... test case 3 matches properly as 2 string literals. Here is where the original regex came from http://blog.stevenlevithan.com/archives/match-quoted-string
Oops, I see.  Yeah, it's relying on the non-greedy behavior for that, which you can't use the same way because you're anchoring to a keyword.  Editing...
That should work but the problem in my case would be false-positives. The probability of a string literal having the special keyword is about 1%. And I have to process a lot of files with hundreds of lines every time. If no one can come up with a way to pre-screen the literals for the special keyword before processing them, I'll go with your solution.
Maybe further developments will help...
It seems to match a lot more than needed. In my test case chunk above, it matched: "test"; var v2 = "testkeyword"; var v3 = "test"; var v4 = "testkeyword";
Tim's modification of your Regexp above works correctly.
Cool.  Glad to have helped, anyhow.
  How about this modification:    
Perfect! Works as needed!
  You need to write two patterns for either single or double quoted strings, as there is no way to make the regex remember which opened the string. Then you can or them together with |.   
  Consider using code from Rhino -- JS in Java -- to get the real String literals.     Or, if you want to use regex, consider one find for the whole literal, then a nested test if the literal contains 'keyword'.      I think Tim's construction works, but I wouldn't bet on it in all situations, and the regex would have to get insanely unwieldy if it had to deal with  literals that don't want to be found (as if trying to sneak by your testing). For example:       Separate from any solution, my secret weapon for interactively working out regexes is a tool I made called    Regex Powertoy   , which unlike many such utilities runs in any browser with Java applet support.  
The test case you mentioned does not apply to my situation. I'm guaranteed that 'keyword' will appear just like that, in ASCII. Doing two tests (first test for string literal, then test for presence of keyword) will produce a lot of false-positives in my case because probability of a literal having a keyword is about 1%.
  A grammar to construct a string literal would look roughly like this:       with non-quote, backslash, and quote being terminals.     A grammar is regular if it is context free (i.e. the left hand side of all rules is always a single non-terminal) and the right hand side of all rules is always either empty, a terminal, or a terminal followed by a non-terminal.     You may notice that the first rule given above has a terminal followed by a nonterminal followed by a terminal.  This is thus not a regular grammar.     A regular expression is an expression that can parse regular languages (languages that can be constructed by a regular grammar).  It is not possible to parse non-regular languages with regular expressions.     The difficulty you have in finding a suitable regular expression stems from the fact that a suitable regular expression doesn't exist.  You will never arrive at code that is obviously correct, this way.     It is much easier to write a simple parser along the lines of above rules.  Since the text    contained    by your string literals    is    regular, you can use a simple regular expression to look for your keyword---   after    you extracted that text from its surroundings.  
Interesting observation. Do you happen to have a test case that will break Tim's solution? It seems to be holding up to all of my test cases.
Hooking a GWT event onto an element in an external iframe
  I am writing a GWT app that involves interacting with an external document in an iframe. As a proof of concept, I am trying to attach a click handler to a button.     The following works in javascript       Trying to do the equivalent in GWT, I did the following:       The following is the ElementWrapper class:       The code to find the button works fine but the actual click event handler is not getting invoked. Has anybody had a similar issue before, and how did you resolve it?     Thanks in advance,     Tin  
  You could use JSNI to reuse your JavaScript piece of code. Your javascript code would call a gwt method on an object that would throw it on behalf of the button in the iframe.     As to why GWT code does not work -- I guess that is because they use some layer on top of regular browser events that probably cannot span more than 1 frame. That's just a guess though. You could file this as a feature/bug request agains GWT team. If I am right your code looks just fine.  
Cool, thanks for the reply. I guess I'll explore the JSNI path, though I want to stay away from writing custom javascript as much as possible.
  After researching this further, I found that the iframe is irrelevant. The same behaviour doesn't work on a normal button on the host page.     I basically fixed it by using JSNI to replicate part of GWT's event handling mechanism. The following works:       Where CustomElementWrapper is:       Finally, the ClickEventManager, where the actual work happens is:       Personally, I hate this solution because I appear to be duplicating GWT's event handling and quite possibly introducing nasty javascript memory leaks. Any ideas on why my first post doesn't work (remembering that the iframe aspect is a red herring), would be appreciated.     Thanks,     Tin  
Thank you, thank you!  This was exactly what I needed to get it to work in IE7!
  I expect the problem is that the GWT method    onAttach()    is not called when you use the wrapping as in your first example. You can try to use the static    wrap    method on the Button widget. Although to use this the    input    must be of type    button   . Or have a look at the implementation of the    wrap    method. Here is the modified code when using the    wrap    method:    
  Hilbrand is right about the problem being that the GWT method    onAttach()    was not called.     I implemented your original solution, adding the following method to    ElementWrapper   :       And called added    wrapper.onAttach()    after the    ElementWrapper    is created. Works like a charm!  
Thank you! I knew there had to be a cleaner way :)
  Please see my previous answer. A slight modification to your original solution will make it work.  
  You may find this helpful:       You will then be able to make arbitrary containers into widget containers:       And bind events to arbitrary elements:       Specifically in your case, try this:       It's always mystified me that GWT makes doing this so difficult and poorly documented.   
  Instead of using iframes i suggest you simply make a http request from GWT via  com.google.gwt.http.client.RequestBuilder. Like so:    
Mozilla Rhino: Default JavaScript Compliance Level
  to execute JavaScript in Rhino one has to create an execution context for the script. The constructor of the    Context class    uses the JavaScript compliance level    VERSION_DEFAULT.           As I cannot find a mapping of    VERSION_DEFAULT    to any of the actual    VERSION_XXX    constants in the API, I'm wondering which JavaScript compliance level VERSION_DEFAULT is. The release note of Rhino 1.7R1 (*ttps://developer.mozilla.org/en/New_in_Rhino_1.7R1) states that one has to specify the JavaScript version explicitly, but it does not mention which version is used when    Context.setLanguageVersion()    is omitted.  
it's open source...
Maybe you should ask this question on the Mozilla Rhino mailing list.
  Having had a look through most of the Rhino code, it looks like most of the testing against language version is negative testing, e.g.       VERSION_DEFAULT is defined as '0', so the one place where it looks like it would need to be set as 1.7 is to support the "let" and "yield" keywords because of this code from TokenStream:    
TextMate equivalent to gVim Ctrl+P
  To auto complete a previously written string.     Is it possible?       EDIT   I'm editing javascript/java if that matters.  
  Yes - the autocomplete key is 'escape' by default. See the    TextMate manual    for further information.  
Thank you!!! it was driving me crazy!!! :)  About the manual... mhhhh ... mmhh well.. Beside having to write my own product user manual ( which I hate and usually I avoid ) do I have to read others  them too??? :) :) :)  ;) Thanks again
@Oscar - absolutely.  RTFM, man.
Also, Google "Textmate tips" - I seem to pick up something new in every blogpost I read about TM.
Thanks for the hint. I didn't know about http://textmatetips.com .
String data passed to Java Applet by javascript is null when in Java applet
  This question may look familliar but I've discovered some rather more pertinent information and tried some other things (which are detailed below) so to avoid confusion I've created another question.     Here's the JavaScript (on an aspx page):       pdfXML is got from pdfData which is a hidden field on the page containing the XML that contains    base64 encoded pdf data    which is passed to the java applet.  All the other values being passed to the applet's WriteDocument method have within range sensible values.     The XML is like this       (the content of the PDF element is a lot bigger than displayed above, i've truncated the data for space reasons; the PDF data is about 4Mb)     The signature of the Java method is:       What happens is that somehow the xml string data is lost and by the time one gets into the Java the value of the PDFData parameter is null.  I've debugged into the JS and the pdfXML param of the js method CallApplet    definitely    has content.     I've also tried to add a param tag in to the applet tag and set its value before calling the applet and used GetParameter() from inside the applet.  This results in a blank string rather than a null.     This problem doesn't occur on every machine.  Our QA department don't get this for example but since this is a client-side issue, one of our customers will probably see this.     I'm utterly out of ideas here so any help would be appreciated (with the obvious proviso that sadly I need to get this working rather than re-engineer this and the legacy systems the applet communicates with to avoid using an applet.)  
  Sorted the problem.     How?  I took JRE 1.6 update 12 off and stuck update 7 (which is the version we reccomend to those who use our website) on my machine.     Why update 12 stopped working I don't know.  Why update 7 is stable I don't know. [sigh]     It's things like this that make me glad I work mostly with a 'long time between releases' framework like .net.  
Detecting a 64-bit jre in a 32-bit browser?
  Is there any way to detect a 64-bit java install in a 32-bit environment? The Java Deployment Toolkit detects nothing, but I was wondering if there was some secret browser way of detecting the 64-bit install client-side.  
    Sun's HotSpot JVM FAQ   :          When writing Java code, how do I distinguish between 32 and 64-bit operation?           There's no public API that allows you to distinguish between 32 and 64-bit operation.  Think of 64-bit as just another platform in the write once, run anywhere tradition.  However, if you'd like to write code which is platform specific (shame on you),  the system property sun.arch.data.model has the value "32", "64", or "unknown".         You can access this like    System.getProperty("sun.arch.data.model")   . This property will obviously only actually be set on Sun JVMs/JREs.     You might also try to parse the results of    System.getProperty("java.vm.name")   , but this will also be highly vendor specific.  
I guess I could do this in an applet, but I was hoping to get this information before java was necessarily loaded or available.
HtmlUnit property undefined script error
  I m submitting a form using java HtmlUnit package.  I am able to get pages and submit forms but on one page I m getting a ScriptException error.  The message is  Cannot set property "disabled" of undefined to "0"      I think it might be caused by a javascript method that tries to set a variable that has not been declared in the form but I m not sure.    
Does viewing the same page in a browser produce a JS error?
I just tested it again and just noticed the page that loads does have a JS error.  Is there a way I can tell HtmlUnit to keep processing like ie does?
  Can you provide a public website to test against? As I am not able to load the JS in    https://mmlab1msslnx.fmr.com/mcwebadm/cgi-bin/edit_local.pl?operation=edit   return_address=%2Fmcwebadm%2Fcgi-bin%2Fmenu.pl   selected=22020c341b11de96c3000423d43f1d       Also, please use latest HtmlUnit 2.5 version.  
I'm not able to provide a public test case.  I'm working on creating one. I have checked and I'm using version 2.5. I was hoping someone had seen something similar to this.
  This was caused my a javascript error on the page that was being loaded. I set the           webClient.getOptions().setThrowExceptionOnScriptError(false);       but it still threw the exception.       SOLUTION: If you catch the ScriptException the page is STILL fully loaded and you can just continue processing and ignoring the exception.     Example of HTML that fails:    
Should I use PHP or JSP for a chat website?
  I want to develop a website web chat application like yahoo. Only difference is that I want to make it web based not desktop. I will be implementing it in jsp/php with ajax.  I want to know whether jsp or php will be better for this. What will be advantages or disadvantages of both. Which one of the two would you prefer and why?     Will jsp applicatioon will be slower then php? I am thinking of using using struts with jsp and ajax . Will using of struts decrease speed? I know jsp, java and struts but not php.  Is php more difficult then jsp?  
How long is a piece of string? Seriously. We don't know exactly what you want to do but I imagine most of the backend stuff will be very similar in difficulty between the two platforms. Most of the work will be platform independent front-end stuff.
It won't be slower because you are using one over the other. It will be slower only if your implementation is less efficient.
Whatever you choose keep in mind that web based chat app would probably need continuous updates from server to the clients (so called Comet).
  Use whichever one that you're a better programmer in.     The task can be accomplished in either language just the same.  You can argue endlessly about language features, the bottom line will be whatever works best for you.  
  JSP based web applications are a bit more harder to deploy than PHP based web applications, but you gain the ability of creating Servlets.      PHP requires less server administration skills to setup properly and get running, is fast to learn, and allows fast creation of simple applications.     None is better than the other, they are different in nature. Check your requirements, and take a decision based on that. If your requirements doesn't favor one over the other, choose whichever your team is more comfortable with.  
+1 for basing your decision on  *your requirements*.
Exactly! Great answer.  Just because you can program easier in PHP doesn't mean it will always be the best choice.  The requirements should be used to point you in the right direction.
I've worked with both JSP and PHP. Even if I prefer PHP, I still work with JSP from time to time depending on my requirements. There is not really a better choice. It always, **always** depends on your requirements.
  JSP isn't a language - it's just a view/presentation technology - so it's only to build a web Frontend - while the main programming happens somewhere else - in the Java Language, as a so-called Java Servlet.     I personally like Java more, but PHP is okay, and if you only know PHP (which I must assume from the questions :) ) you're better off doing it in PHP now - you can learn Java later...     Apart from that, the others asking for more background info are right - you need to see what technology meets your requirements best...  
People refer to JSP the same way as ASP.NET is referred to. It is a framework.
Which is incorrect, and therefore I point out how it really is :) No, really, maybe people not doing Java development themselves do that. Java folks neither say they build something in JSP instead of PHP, because JSP isn't a language, nor do they refer to JSP as a framework (because it does not deliver a complete stack of functionalities) - frameworks are things like struts, gwt, webwork, sitemesh - and even those only deliver the view part - a full stack web framework helps you with a lot more things than just the view.
  If you know both well then choose any.     But if facing difficulty then PHP is better to stay with.        Reasons:         fundamentally easy     large no. of developer libraries are available.     Easy to integrate with other scripting languages       But structural syntax becomes a problem as they are so many in cumbersome manner. Use PHP tag library for that works just like JSTL.          "Choosing language is not the problem but efficient implementation of code is the only hurdle."    
java equivalent of swfobject
  looking for a javascript class like swfobject to embed java and have a simple fallback if the user doesn't have java or refuses the security prompt.     thanks,     Josh  
    appletobject    may work, but I have not used it.  
  You could build one pretty easily.     Have something like a div set up like this:       Then add    Java Plugin Detection    (   builder   ) to your JavaScript. Then if that returns true, then do something like:    
  Just embed the applet like you normally do and insert the fallback inside or insert a javascript snippet to remove the object: Besides param, you can add other elements, e.g. paragraphs with text or javascript calling some function to replace the object.    
  This helps!        I got a very strange problem while using applet to do batch file downloading from the server side.        The Ajax request seems conflict with applet request, the applet file downloading interrupted with some socket exception.       The applet works fine under JRE5.0, it might be caused by our recent upgrade to JRE6.0.         div id="java-applet"     /div     script       var t;     function startApplet() {         var attributes = {codebase:'   %=request.getContextPath()%   ',                           code:'   %=appletClass%   ',                           archive:'applet/SignedApplet.jar',                           width:0,                            height:0} ;         var parameters = {para1:'value1',                           para2:'value2',                           java_arguments:'-Xms64m -Xmx512m'         } ;         var version = '1.6' ;         var buildAppletTag = function() {             var tag = '   applet';             for (var attribute in attributes){                 tag += (' ' + attribute + '="' + attributes[attribute] + '"');             }             tag += "   ";             for (var parameter in parameters){                 tag += '   param name="' + parameter + '" value="' + parameters[parameter] + '"/   ';             }                tag += '   /applet   ';             return tag;         };         document.getElementById("java-applet").innerHTML = buildAppletTag(attributes, parameters, version);         clearTimeout(t);     }     t = setTimeout("startApplet()", 1000); // delayed   /script      
Any function / method in Java to implement a "freeze panes"-like sheet?
  We are using Java and Javascript to try to display a huge    sheet with freeze panes   , but it is being very difficult. Does someone know about a library, method, script or something, either free or commercial, to do this?     Thanks.  
Not totally sure I understand what a sheet with freeze panes means - could you expand on this?
It means to be able to display a huge sheet, keeping the first row and column freeze. The idea is to be able to scroll through the sheet without losing the view of the first columns or rows which usually contain the column or row titles.
  After looking at    http://blogs.zoho.com/general/freeze-panes-in-zoho-sheet   , I assume you are looking for similar functionality in tables?  One way to do this would be to have two tables, one that was "frozen" rows (or columns) that grew or shrunk in size based on how many frozen you had, and the other was the dynamic table that grew or fell in size based on how many unfrozen there were.  
Closing popups on session expiry
  Here is the thing : my webapp has loads of popups and my boss wants 'em closed on session expiry, coz when session expires and an user presses refresh on a popup, he is being shown the logon page -> user logs on -> user is directed to the dashboard. Now, a dashboard screen in a popup is totally uncool. Here is where google got me:      Have javascript to close popup onload. Generate this onload script into the response  if session has expired (checking session expiry from jsp and including onload script conditionally).      Do you think this is a good way to it? What is the best practice for this scenario?      P.S: I am not allowed to use AJAX  
The best practice is to not use "loads of popups". That aside, when you talk about closing popup in "onload" event what would really happen is user would refresh the popup and it would close (which would be REALLY weird from user's standpoint) OR user would get a prompt from the browser (close this window? yes / no) which is equally weird.
@ChssPly76 - yes, from an user standpoint, it's probably weird. But, designing data-oriented applications without pop-ups is one heck of a challenge.
I'm ok with popups as long as I don't need any of the information behind it. If I do, I get pissed at them and curse the designers.
The _only_ possible excuse for using popup windows is a requirement for application to function without javascript because then you can at least do some stuff via ` < a href='...' target='...'` voodoo. Beyond that, everything you can do with popups you can do without them (via javascript windows, partial content updates, what have you). Now I can totally see where "not allowed to use AJAX" would put a cramp in that approach, so I'm not bashing your design choice per se, just the complete ridiculousness of the "design without popups is a challenge" statement :-)
  The best way would be an XMLHTTP request to check login and close them if required - do this periodically.     Astute readers (meaning everyone) will notice that this is an AJAX request, but if you phrase it that way it might get accepted as whoever dictated that you 'aren't allowed to use AJAX' is clearly an idiot.  
@Luke the corporate IT teams of non-IT core companies are loaded with idiots who would tell you not to use AJAX :-) : And my boss is one of 'em!
Won't the periodic HTTP request keep the session alive?
then they are screwed. and so are you if your boss reads that you just called him an idiot...
@matt b: not if you keep record of the last user activity.
@matt b - George said what I was going to say :)
  In a past life, I made a popup manager object that maintained what windows were open. You should probably make one of these if not already done. Then, you can use    setTimeout    to call a function after so many minutes (or whatever time you want) have gone by. This will check for recent activity (probably via AJAX) and close the popup if you determine that the session has expired. If not, call    setTimeout    again with your new time, properly adjusted for most recent activity.     ^^before the AJAX edit.     Well, since you can't use AJAX, can you put something in the url that will tell you it's a popup? Then you'll know not to show the login screen when the user hits reload.   
  If your boss is asking you to achieve this, without using AJAX, then you're in trouble. He should understand that the only connection a browser has to the server (without refreshing the page) is javascript (what he understands to be ajax).     The best way to do this is to setup a script on the pages to ask the server if the user is still logged in every 30 seconds or so.       This script assumes you're using the jQuery framework for rapid development of javascript solutions. This also uses JSON (Javascript Object-notation) to test a return-value from the loggedin.php file.     Bottom line, you need to use AJAX. Tell your boss there is no other way. If he still doesn't get it, ask him to balance his checkbook without using math.  
Or just tell your boss that you're brilliant and figured out a way to do it with Javascript instead of AJAX
Well, the J in AJAX is javascript. If its not async (A) and not xml (X) based, then he can build a case saying that he's not using AJAX, unfortunately, the example uses JQuery and underneath the hood, it is using the A, J and X of AJAX.
  An alternative way to implement modal dialogs in a web application is to:       Model the dialog in a DIV, default styled to display: none;     On desired action, inject/append the Modal dialog DIV into the page source     Reset the CSS display so the modal dialog DIV is visible, overlaid on top of the page by setting the CSS z-index property     Make the modal dialog disappear upon either successful execution or the user cancelling out       Because the modal dialog is part of the page source, the dialog will disappear when the session times out.  This approach doesn't spawn supporting windows that can be orphaned as the poster is attempting to address.  And it fits the requirement of not using AJAX.     You can code these by hand, but I don't really recommend it because of having to support various browser.  I suggest looking at the    Yahoo User Interface   .  You can tailor it to suit your needs (IE: only modal dialogs), and it would support AJAX if requirements change down the road.     Beware of spawning modal dialogs from modal dialogs.  
  In theory, you could avoid AJAX by using a hidden flash widget...     But more practically, AJAX is the 'right' solution, and I think you will have to talk to your boss, determine where this 'no AJAX' rule came from, and convince him that AJAX is the best way to solve this problem.     Does he think AJAX would be take too much time to implement?  If so, you should prove him wrong.  Does he think it will be hard to maintain?  If so, show how simple the code to do this will be, and how widely used the common AJAX libraries are.  If your boss is reasonable, then his goal is to what is best for the product, and you should be able to reason with him.  
using google map after logging
  I have a project witch is using googleMap, when I used localhost googleMap works correctly and anythings is OK, but when I deploy it on the other computer the site can not work(don't show google map!!!). I got a valid key but stil this problem exists! please help me!  
when you say "other computer" do you mean you are deploying it to google app engine?
  Might it be a cross-site scripting issue?  There's an option in the GoogleMaps preferences that allows you to turn off security.  As an experiment, try turning it off to see if it makes any difference.  (And don't forget to turn it back on when you are done!)  
  Do you manage correctly the errors from Google Map API in your code, in order to see if there is a given error returned by one of the google map function you use     Also, did you inspect the page when deployed on the other computer, with a tool like firebug/web inspector, to see if there are some errors linked to the problem  
  This really sounds like an API key problem.  Make sure that you used the right domain to get your key.     If you use "example.com" to get your key, all of the sub-directories on example.com will be valid.     If that's not it, you definitely need to use Firebug to find out what the error is.  
is it free to get key?
It is definitely free.  http://code.google.com/apis/maps/signup.html
Read Browser/Client time from Http Servlet request header
  Is it possible to read the Browser(Client machine) time when a request is made to the servlet?  
  I don't believe so. Unfortunately the HTTP    Date    header is only sent for PUT or POST messages, and even then it's optional:          Clients SHOULD only send a Date header   field in messages that include an   entity-body, as in the case of the PUT   and POST requests, and even then it is   optional. A client without a clock   MUST NOT send a Date header field in a   request.       If you have control of the client, you could (perhaps) encode it as a separate experimental HTTP header. Or add it as a GET parameter etc.  
  You can use javascript and append the time to every request. Provided that javascript is enabled, you can add the following to your links:       You can do something similar, if you need timezone information. This    question    may help.  
JAAS tomcat login module possible method to pass ip address
  I've been looking into a way of passing the client ip as well as the userid and password from a JAAS login page to the JAAS login module implementation in my web code.  JAAS only allows the user id and password to be passed to the login module.  My idea is to have a java script code to append the ip address to the user id and then call the form submit.  I just don't have the right java script code to do this.  Can you help?     The web page has two input fields, j_userid and j_password, which the JAAS code knows to look it.  So what javaScript code can I use to add the ip address to the j_userid field before the form submit.  I was thinking of 'ip-address#userid' and then in my login module I'd take the ip address off the userid.  
  Sorry, I don't think there is a way to obtain the ip on the client side, in plain Javascript.     Testing the remote ip on the server side is probably not a solution if you don't control the infrastructure between the client and the server (load-balancers, proxies...). If you're confident the remote ip is the ip of the client, you should be able to hack a tomcat Valve or a servlet filter.  
I can get the ip address onto the page in a hidden field using a JSF bean.  The problem is passing it through to the JAAS login module.
  I created these two javaScript functions.       addIpSubmit is called from a login button.  You can see I have a bean to put the ip address into a hidden field.  The j_username JAAS field is also hidden and is filled in by the addIpSubmit() function.       It mungs the ip to the user name and calls the JAAS submit functions.  Then in the login module I get the ip address and user name out.       Just remember that the FacesContext.getCurrentInstance().getExternalContext().getRemoteUser() now has the ip#userid in it.  
How to get custom value from text field in JSP?
  I'm working in a very simple and small web application, it is a jsp that handles a shopping cart.     What I do at this point is to iterate through all the products that are stored in the car and add them one by one to the jsp with each iteration.     This is the code that adds a row to the jsp in each iteration:       As you can see I add to the end of each row a submit type control with a custom method for handling Click events, the use of this control is to remove from the car the respective product.     The problem that I have is that when I click in the delete button of a product, the id that is passed to the CustomSubmit(...) method is not the id of the product that I'm trying to remove but the id of the last product added to the jsp.     So, my question is how can I get the correct id from the item that I'm trying to remove?  
How are you iterating over each item in the cart?
I got them in an ArrayList() that is contained in a Java Bean that is located in the session scope.
  The way i use to do it is as follows:     Replace        add the deleteIt javascript function, in the function you fill a hidden input field with the id. Then submit the page and the correct id gets passed to your page     Little sidenote its always prudent to escape all your Strings       maybe like    
Thanks for the sidenote, I will do it, now about what you suggest, I understand the javascript function part, but how do you do to get 'yourid' variable, because I{m adding rows dynamically, and I don t know which is the id from the product that the user wants to remove, the id is contained in a column of the row, but I don't know how to get it...
  I assume your cart is a list of objects, each having the attributes id and quantity.  So I would expect you code to look something like this (noting Peter's answer about using a 'button'):       I'm not entirely sure what you are trying to do with the 'request' parameter in your original code but if this is the HTTP request all you will get when you try to write it to the JSP is the result of the    request.toString    method.  
well, actually you can just ignore the request parameter, is not important at this moment; and it is just as you say, that is exactly how I'm working, but the problem is that when the event is fired and this code "CustomSubmit(' < %=cartItem.id%>')" is executed, I don't get the "cartItem.id" from the item that I want to remove, I get the "cartItem.id" from the last item added to the jsp. One solution could be try to get the "cartItem" from the list but in order to do so I will need to know the row number of the item that I want to delete and I don't know either how to get the row number
When you look at the page source in the browser does each row in the table have the same id?  If so the problem isn't with this code, it's with either the iteration logic or the cart item object.  If not then there's something up with your JavaScript and it's time to crack out Firebug and take a look at what's going on.
javascript injection in wicket
  I have J2EE project which uses wicket framework. I want to know how can I prevent from javascript injection in wicket?  
  Although I didn't think the way in which you formulated your question deserved it (no details, no background, no example problem statement, implied susceptability to injection, etc), I dug up some details from the Excellent    Wicket in Action   :       Wicket is secure by default            You never need to worry about   pimple-faced 14-year-olds trying to   hack your web application. To do so,   they would have to hijack the session   and then guess the right page   identifiers and version numbers, which   would be relative to the session and   the relevant component paths. You d   have to be a persistent hacker to pull   that off. You can make your Wicket   application even more secure from the   default by encrypting requests with,   for instance,   CryptedUrlWebRequestCodingStrategy.    
  All Wicket components escape strings by default (by Labels, TextFields, etc.), which avoids most common issues related to javascript injection.     You should take appropriate care, though, if you disable this behavior (   component.setEscapeModelStrings(false)   ) for some reason, or create custom-rendered components (if you write the markup directly to the output).  
render complex org chart similar javascript/flash/java graphic library
  i am looking for javascript/flash/java graphic lib. that able to render nicely a very complex relationship where one node is relate to another node etc. for example     a--> b---> c     b--> d,e,f      any recommandation library?  
So essentially you are looking for recommendations for a graph visualization library for Javascript, Flash, or Java?
yes.i am looking for graph visualization lib
  what a cooincidence, I was just looking into this myself. I found this:   http://www.ryandesign.com/canviz/         http://code.google.com/p/canviz/    
    Prefuse    is very cool and Java based.      Demo    here   .  
  This is the one I use for Organizational chart        http://code.google.com/apis/visualization/documentation/gallery/orgchart.html    
  The    Graphviz    open source graph visualization software is widely used to render graphs, and    jGraphviz    is a binding for java.  
focusing the text field
  How to focus the calender after selecting the date from calender..     I am selecting the date and calender is also closing but  after that focus is missing.     Please help me on this issue..     Regards     Sk  
which calender?
java or javascript?
  It seriously depends on the calendar implementation you use.     If the calendar is drown by Java tag try to seek the    onchange    attribute and set it to:    
This appears to be JavaScript code, not Java.
Do Applet JSObject javascript calls serialize?
  Do applet javascript calls serialize in any proper way? I'm considering implementing a model in which two threads send off javascript commands. One responds to requests from the browser (js), and the other hits the browser periodically. My question is this:    what happens if these two javascript requests collide?       I'm worried about concurrent javascript requests, as intuition leads me to believe that one of the calls will fail nondeterministically.  
  Javascript is single-threaded. Only one block of code can be executing at any given time; any other event, method, etc. that fires will wait until the currently executing code terminates. Google Chrome's javascript engine may be an exception - I recall them mentioning some kind of multi-threaded javascript support in their features, but I'm unsure how it works. In IE 6, the browser UI will actually become unresponsive while JS code is running (if you stop at a breakpoint with keyword 'debugger', or have IE set to debug, for example).  
  Serialize? Do you mean synchronize? JSObject works by passing primitives to a single JSContext JNI NPAPI wrapper which acts on the DOM in the underlying browser implementation. Are you referring to the passing of primitives through JNI?     I don't know much about how chrome's JS engine works, but I assume that since the liveconnect NPAPI in chrome is the same as the others, the ability to write multithreaded javascript has nothing to do with multithreaded JSObject access. The affected code extends the same abstract JSObject class that firefox uses.     There are several implementations of JSObject/liveconnect -- a few for netscape/firefox and one for ie (ocx). All behave differently as far as multiple threads go.     DOM access isn't threadsafe in general as far as liveconnect is concerned. So, officially, multiple threads accessing the DOM is undefined. If you manage to actually access the DOM through something other than code scoped in DOMService.run(), you'll get crazy deadlocks and race conditions.     So, basically, you need all of your java threads to post all DOMActions to your DOM access dispatch thread only.  
Display a javascript/css tooltip within a @For loop with Tapestry 4.0.1
  I'm not at all familiar with Tapestry 4.0.1 and need to update a legacy application to display a formatted tooltip for a few links within a @For loop. What is the easiest/best way to go about accomplishing this? Should I be using the @Script component or is there a simpler way?      By the way, upgrading to a newer version of Tapestry is out of the question. Unfortunate, yes, but out of my control.     Thanks in advance for your help.     Carl  
Maybe the better question would be: How do I pass a value to an inline function call? I've written a small function to show the tip, but I need to pass the message to it like so:   So, how do I pass the message in?
  After posting my question, I managed to come up with a rather hacky (crappy?) solution.  Can't say it's my proudest moment as a engineer, but it works.*       *Some code omitted to protect the innocent.  
IIRC, using the dom to update the structure is preferred to a straight document.write(...) CMA: There was something along the lines of DOM/document.write posted here on SO a while ago
  Use the @Any component.  For your example, substitute MYTOOLTIP with whatever object is holding the message:    
How can I define static properties for Rhino's ScriptableObject?
  Rhino provides    Scriptable    interface and    ScriptableObject    helper class to implement a javascript object backed by a java object.      When    ScriptableObject    is constructed, its methods with names starting with    jsFunction___   ,    jsStaticFunction___   ,    jsGet___   ,    jsSet___   ,    jsConstructor    are automatically defined for the javascript object. This way you can defined funations, static frunctions, instance properties (by its accessors), and constructor.     The question is how to define static properties?     By static properties I mean properties on the constructor, like static methods are methods on the constructor.     The only way I see for now is to use    finishInit    method, and define static properties manually. But what is the right way?  
  Currently I have something like this on my mind:       Are there other ways? And is this way correct?     IMPORTANT: Note that constructor for    MyObject    is not yet defined in scope, when    finishInit    is called. In order to define static properties, which are instances of    MyObject   , use the following syntax:    
md5 hash for password string in GWT/GWT-Ext?
  I am currently trying to modify an existing GWT-Ext application, that is using plain text passwords in its MySql database.     My plan was to use md5 hashes, as the existing passwords can be easily altered with the MySql function and I was expecting to find an easy solution for the GWT-Ext side as well. But as I found out, java.security is not supported by GWT and there doesn't seem to be any other implementation that can be used to change the password string to a md5 hash on client side.     Only "solution" I found so far, is to re implement a md5 method via JSNI as described here:   http://groups.google.com/group/Google-Web-Toolkit/browse_thread/thread/ad09475a9944c9f8       There is an existing user extension for Ext-JS, but I couldn't find anything for GWT-Ext:   http://extjs.com/forum/showthread.php?p=133516       Does anybody know a more elegant/simple way to solve this problem? Maybe I should use something else instead of md5 to make sure the passwords are encrypted?     Cheers Frank  
  Personally, I would say you're doing it wrong. I wouldn't hash a password on the client side (which is what GWT is). If you hash your password, you will undoubtedly want to salt it, otherwise you will be susceptible to    rainbow    attacks. If you hash + salt it on the client side, your salt will be accessible to your users.     If I were you, I would hash + salt your password on the server side. This will allow you to use your standard Java code to perform your MD5 hash.     My 2 cents.     -JP  
Its not a bad scheme if he does something like cram-md5 on the client side, where the client computes a hmac (md5 hash plus a nonce salt) and sends it to the server.  The down side is that the server needs clear text password to check the hmac.
good point about the rainbow attacks, didn't knew about this before. I also solved it by doing the encryption on the server side, but the idea was, that I wanted to encrypt the password, before sending it to the server, as we currently only use http and no https.
GWT is client-side and server side.  Other than that, the post is good advice.  Don't hash it on the client side.  Have a look at http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Hashing_Java.
  Another idea that may fit your need is something called zero knowledge auth.  (Ie. the server never needs to know the user's plain text password.)     Basically, when setting the initial password, the client hashes the user's password N times (where N is a largish number like 1000), and then sends that final hash to the server along with N.  The server stores the hash and N.     Later, when the user wants to authenticate, the server tells the client N-1, and the client hashes the password the user types N-1 times and sends that to the server.  The server does 1 more hash on the received hash, and (hopefully) gets the stored hash.  The server then stores the N-1 hash and N-1 number.     Each time the user authenticates, the server decrements the stored N and saves the previous hash.     When N gets down to 0, the user must choose and set a new password.     The server must ensure that it never asks for the same iteration, otherwise it is vulnerable to a replay.  You can't really enforce that condition from the client side because the client (especially a browser) can't reliably keep track of the last N.  
Very interesting idea, and never thought of that before. Doesn't really fit in the current solution, but I will keep it in mind for future reference, thanks :-)
Interesting idea so I spent some time thinking about it, but it is vulnerable to a man-in-the-middle attack. On an authentication request, the server sends some number M. The attacker sends (M-1) to the client, and receives hash(M-1) back. The attacker tries to authenticate again, receives challenge (M-1) from the server and responds with hash(M-1). The attacker is now authenticated.
yes, that does sound like an issue.  My first thought would be to require the server to not reuse M after issuing it during a challenge to the client.  However, the larger issue remains that Mallory could tell the client M-100, collect the hash(M-100) from the client, and then login up to 100 times with the intercepted hash.  I'll have to go see if the project that I first encountered this in found the same issues and dealt with it or abandoned zero knowledge auth.
I think you're always going to be vulnerable to a man in the middle attack. Keyloggers too.  Also drunken confessions of passwords. We can only raise the bar so far with reasonable coding efforts.
  You can use    gwt-crypto    to generate    SHA-1    hashes on the client side using:    
  You should never use an md5 or other hash functions for password encryption. See    http://codahale.com/how-to-safely-store-a-password/    
Has anyone used GWT and can say it really delivers what it promises?
  I am a long time Java web developer and as most web developers I have used quite a lot of JavaScript. Even though I don't hate JavaScript as many other Java developers, I am still aware of its faults.      GWT is a way to write javascript using java. Since I know both languages for a long time I am pretty skeptical about this claim. I mean, I having a hard time believing that you can really create full Java dynamic web applications with a rich GUI using just GWT. That is why I am asking here if anyone had the chance to work with GWT on a large scale project. If so, I would really like to hear what they think of it.  
Why the close? This looks like an interesting question to me..
Some people have the bad habit of clicking 'close' if they just don't like the question. I don't think this is subjetive nor argumentative at all
Did you end up using GWT?  Did it deliver?
Hi Dave, No, finally I decided not using it. My final conclusion was that GWT seems like a really good product and the people who use it mostly love it.  Nevertheless, I feel like since GWT has a totally different way of doing things, it is a product that once you start using it, you commit for life. And that is something I really stay away from. Thanks for asking.
  I've looked at it briefly for an older application at one of my jobs, and I must admit that it was very impressive.  All the code was written in Java, and the javascript was built beautifully.     It had AJAX, dynamic pages, the works.  There are plugins for it as well, such as the    Ext GWT    framework.     It's definitely worth looking into and trying out, but you may find that the development cycle doesn't "feel" right, so you might opt to use regular JavaScript.  
good point about the dev environment "feel." GWT is definitely only for those that enjoy/tolerate the constraints of a language like Java.
  As with any tool, it needs to be used properly. One can wield a hammer skillfully and build something nice, or just wave it around at stuff and do more harm than good.       Google Wave   , I think, has become the prototype of "what's possible" with GWT.     It's still rather hard to find good GWT design patterns because the technology is too new, so that can harm efforts to develop a very rich, large-scale web app in GWT. Before beginning such a project, I would recommend looking at examples of the model-view-presenter (MVP) pattern and be sure to use it, or something like it, as a foundation for the control flow of your web app. One nice thing about GWT, and writing your code in Java, is that the high degree of abstraction and decoupling necessary for a clean MVP implementation is pretty easy (thanks to the compiler).  
  I've written fairly large sized app in GWT, and i have to say that i'm even more impressed by GWT than i was when the project started.  My general 'feel' of the platform is that things are really well thought out, and they don't do things unless they can do it well, and can do it well on all browsers (IE users are still your users!)     Now, keep in mind that what GWT really excels at is the creation of large, highly dynamic single-page style webapps.  If your goal is to enhance an otherwise static page with some javascript effects, than GWT is massive overkill (gquery may change this, but i don't have experience with gquery)     Some features I enjoy include:       The ability to share code between the server side and the client side.  (if your server side is written in java, of course).  I didn't expect to use this a lot of this at first, but in practice, it can really save a lot of code duplication.  However, i find that in general, this only works with code that has been written with GWT in mind - using code that was not written with GWT in mind often doesn't work well.  This is because GWT only has a subset of the classes in the JDK, and in javascript, you have to care about performance a lot more than you do on the server side.       It aims to achieve the fastest javascript, faster than you would ever write by hand (because if you did write it by hand, the code would be unmaintainable).  The unfortunate reality is that the browsers that a lot of people use have incredibly slow javascript engines, so the performance of your javascript code matters a lot.  Gwt's compiler is a real optimizing compiler - it will inline methods, intern all your strings. devirtualize your method calls when possible, etc.  Because you are compiling for each browser and locale, the compiler can also inline browser-specific and locale-specific code.   This    Google I/O presentation    has some benchmarks a few slides in.     It will also automatically sprite your images together to minimize the number of http requests needed, again improving the speed of your site.  GWT 2.0 will allow you to combine together arbitrary files.     most of the files created by gwt have a strong hash as their filename, which lets you set the files to be cached forever, but not worry about people having old versions if the file changes     The code splitting in GWT 2.0 is very impressive and would be very difficult to do by hand.  As the size of your application grows, dealing with the size of your javascript matters more and more, and you need to be able to split it into chunks     You are coding in a statically typed language.  I know some people prefer dynamic typing, but i like to compare this debate to the emacs vs vi debate - there are a lot of smart people on both camps, and arguing on the internet isn't going to change anyone's preference     You get to use a lot of the great tools that exist in the java ecosystem, which are generally a lot more mature than the equivilant javascript tools. - junit, java IDEs, java debuggers, refactoring, etc.    
Oh, and i guess the biggest downsides is:  - compile time - hosted mode is great, but you can't currently use it for the system non-default browser - GWT 2.0 and out of process hosted mode should fix this though.  - The java language can be verbose at times, although that is far from a showstopper.  (gwt for scala would be awfully nice :) )
  If you have familiarity with both JavaScript and Java, you really are perfectly suited to get the most out of GWT. What many people do not realize is that GWT is pretty well layered and that you can really decide which of those levels you want to work at.      For instance, I sometimes write directly against the DOM library for projects. Thats a lot like writing JavaScript code except you're able to use an IDE properly and get the power of a compiler. From the compiler I get static type checking, lots of good compiler optimizations, and (actually my favorite for maintaining code) debug mode assertions. Nobody ever really makes much of the ability to do assertions, but it's so nice to be able to compile a debug mode that does expensive checks to tease out bugs and then turn off the debug mode and have the code just evaporate. (Not just the assert statements go away, but all the code reachable from the asserts also gets compiled out).     Other times, I write code against GWT's UI library. That code looks a bit like swing or SWT code so it is most comfortable to pure java developers. Working at this level, you don't have to worry as much about the DOM and it is usually possible to construct an application without writing any JavaScript. You do occasionally run into a bug where something doesn't work consistently on a particular browser. The GWT folks consider those bugs.     You can kind of pick what level of abstraction you want to work at. There are tradeoffs at each level, but GWT should support them.     Also, full disclosure: I'm the dude in the video that Chi linked above, so you might say I'm pretty attached to GWT.  
  I have created two quite substantial GWT applications in my three years at Google.  It delivers what it promises - my apps were far more interactive and far more ajax-y than my knowledge of Javascript and my Javascript tooling would have let me produce using other tools.     I also found the apps more interactive and more fun than the purely server-side alternatives I had used before moving to it.     It is not free of warts, but it is a very productive environment to do the kinds of apps I do.     And do watch Kelly's presentation.  It, and some of the others from I/O, give a really clear idea of what GWT can do.  You will pretty quickly get a good idea of whether it is the right tool for the task you are envisioning.  
  I have been developing a green field application on GWT for a year and it has been surprisingly pleasant. The subset of Java used in GWT causes some headaches but nothing major after all. I didn't have too much JavaScript knowledge when I joined the project but I think that was not a problem.     The common GWT related problems I have encountered had usually something to do with Ext GWT/GXT framework or FCKEditor integration.   
  Simply GWT rocks google is making "google wave" fully on GWT.  
  I think GWT does what it says on the tin...     Top 5 Reasons for choosing GWT:         Tapestry can be overly complicated and the learning curve is pretty steep for new developers who are starting out \ joining the team. Esp. on larger projects.         I found that I could develop "richer" applications using GWT seeing that my strength is Java not Javascript. In order for me to implement similar functionality using Tapestry I would have to hand write Javascript which would later become a maintenance nightmare.         Browser compatibility, I would spend large amounts of time trying to get my hand written Javascirpt to work on all the different browsers (like I said Javascript is not my strength :-) The GWT Compiler hides me from this which results in me spending more time writing features.         Back button blues, GWT's History listener is handles the browsers back button in comparison to Tapestry.         GWT has a smaller footprint because only the data is being sent across the wire apposed to refreshing the entire page.         The list goes on but all in all, I am very happy to have made the change and have not looked back since.  
  I didn't know much Javascript when I tried to create my website. In fact, that is why I had been putting off creating the website.     So for me, GWT made a huge difference as it enabled me to create a dynamic, cross-browser website that I definitely would not have been able to create without putting in significant effort into learning Javascript.  
  I've done a few projects over a few years and it is fantastic. Going back to JS/JSP/request based framework is really horrible.     Don't want to give up compile time checks, unit tests in my IDE, IDE refactoring etc, sharing code between different tiers, solid set of widgets, incredibly well thought out framework.     Can do so much more so much faster in a maintainable way.  
  There is a steep learning curve, but for really dynamic ui applications, there is just no way that you can build from hand in javascript as efficiently.  What I mean in particular is for instance an application frontend for a service where all the searchable fields and result type s and length were completely unknown.  For this type of thing, a dynamic runtime defined ui, there is nothing better than GWT in my opinion.       The drawbacks are the steep learning curve(especially for non-swing Java programmers, traditional request/response servlet api guys and gals) and getting cornered into GWT once you make that decision.  
How to evalute prototype js files through rhino script engine in Java
  I am having problems evaluating a script.js file which is dependent of prototype.js. When i am trying to evaluate the script.js file through rhino script engine in java i got Script Exception like "TypeError: $H is not a function, it is java.lang.String.". How do I evaluate the files and how to include prototype.js and to define the prototype objects?  
  have you evaluated them in the correct order? They need to be evaluated from the bottom up  
  You cannot evaluate prototype.js using Rhino only. prototype.js have many references to the HTML DOM which is not implemented in Rhino/Java. For example (from prototype.js): document.createTextNode('') The document global object is not defined in Rhino context and createTextNode is not defined too.     The solution is to remove all Objects/Functions from your copy of prototype.js that references the document, window or navigator objects. (assuming your js file does not use them)  
You could also get away with declaring some dummy objects for document, window, navigator and so on. This way you do not have to change prototype.js.
Yes, that's cool :)
  Take a look at    env-js   , which is a mock browser environment for Rhino. It's based on    some work by John Resig    to get JQuery working in Rhino. I wouldn't be surprised if Prototype worked as well.  
GWT conditional compile
  I'm using the same source code for a GWT 1.5 and GWT 1.7 application.     I'm wondering is there a way to conditionally compile parts of the java code for one or the other version.     I know there is a way to do it for widgets and browsers in the module XML file.  
I don't think so. Why would you compile for two GWT sources? We went from 1.5 to 1.7 without problems.
We did to. But in one case the old (1.5) and the new (1.7) compiled code does not behave the same. It's a combination of java and native inserted scripts. Moving the old (1.5) code to the new interfaces removing all deprecated calls is currently to much work.
  If you really want to do that I guess the approach would be to use a Generator.     With a generator you can have deferred binding (a bit a poor man's introspection).     To get access to the 1.5 or 1.7 code you then have to define the generic API in an interface and use GWT.create on it to get the concrete implementation.  
  The solution is very simple.    
  if (version.startsWith("1.5")) {   // do something the 1.5.* way }     Is actually kind of a bad idea. Ideally you should use absolute string values here, because the GWT compiler will evaluate equality and trim unreachable code inside an if conditional from the compiled output. Using .startsWith means that all the code will end up in the final application.      Unfortunately GWT version is not a compile time property. Perhaps the best way to do it would be to create an empty Generator implementation that just returns "ClassName15" or "ClassName17" from a  call in your module for "ClassName". You can then, at compile time, call About.version() from the generator and find out what the version is at compile time.  
Thanks for pointing that out, but this is the only solution I have found. And it is only for a small code snippet. So the solution works just fine for me.
How to parse javascript for links with java?
  I'm writing a program (in Java) that needs to extract links from webpages. I'm using htmlParser (http://htmlparser.sourceforge.net/) but I'm only able to extract html links (defined with      a href="..."     ) and I don't know how to handle javascript code to extract links from... can you help me??   
There are some missing parts in your question. Is it formatting issue?
Please edit your question : it's hard to understand what you mean.
I can't understand why it's hard to understand what I mean, is it because of my poor english? Please tell me more.
  You can use Rhino with    DOM environment, written in JavaScript   .   By the way it is written by John Resig.  
I've never played with DOM, but I'll take a look at your link, thanks.
  HTML Parser from sourceforge is useful. I have used it to parse a whole bunch of HTML already. However, parsing JS is different. Cheers.  
  This is probally the most comprehensive tool out there.    Rhino    . Everything you want to do can be done with Rhino.   
Kill Java Applet via Javascript
  I am working for a developing firm and am doing a major redesign on a Web Application, which reloaded everything after each click, to make extensive use of Javascript, so it actually feels like a real Web application. One of the Features is to use a web-based Painter (think of MSPaint on the Web), which I embed on the Page on Demand. After the image is painted and uploaded, the Web-app then unloads the applet and proceeds to show the directory where the file was uploaded to.     This is where Trouble starts. It all works on IE and Safari, but not on Firefox 3.5 (3.0 works perfectly though). Firebug tells me that the expando property is missing.     The Web-app Tiparlo which I was working on before had a similar Problem (in fact, any manipulation done on an applet via jQuery is faulty) but solved that Problem by wrapping a div around and controlling (hide and show) the div instead of the applet. This, unfortunately isn't applicable on this Web-app, because the Applet has to be destroyed and not just hidden and shown, as it takes up too much resources to be run the entire time where it is not needed.     To make it short: Is it possible to make an Applet destroy itself via Javascript? Alternatively: Is there a workaround on the jQuery/expando/applet problem? I know that applet is deprecated in HTML 4.01 strict but changing it to object is not an option right now.     EDIT: I have added a Picture of Firefox + Firebug to show you the actual Error Message. Posting Code does no god, since it works flawless on every other Browser and is a Firefox 3.5 specific Problem.    Here be pictures       Note: You can ignore the JS Bug coming from button.js.  
What happens if you destroy the DIV that surrounds the applet? (not hide it, destroy it with removeElement and delete
I tried that, but to no avail. My Theory: I imagine that by hiding the parent div, the Browser itself takes care of hiding the children too and not Javascript. But, when deleting the parent div, it is also Javascript's Job to delete the child applet hence causing the expando Bug to arise. I have been looking at the jQuery Bug Tracker and that particular Bug is listed on the Roadmap for the 1.3.3 release. Since I cannot wait for it to fix itself (be fixed by jQuery dev Team), I have to find a workaround.
  I would suggest that you create a class that monitors the applet to be killed. run the monitor as some sort of servlet and get javascript to post 'kill applet' commands when it needs to be killed.   
  You could always load the applet in a an iframe and just navigate away from the page where the applet is loaded. This will kill it.     Your other option if you want to call the destroy from javascript would be to put something like this in.        This is not a nice way to kill an applet but on newer browsers it does not throw a JS error, on older ones like IE6 it will throw a js error.  
Yep, this one solves the problem (generates a new one but I can handle that one).
What was the new problem it created, just curious.
If you kill the applet after the javascript call finishes it will probably avoid the error. You can do this with java.util.Timer.schedule().
why not use the nuilt in Applet's stop() method ?
How to wait for a Java applet to finish loading on Safari?
  This doesn't work in Safari:         myMethod    is a public method declared in    MyAppletClass   .     When I first load the page in Safari, it shows the alert before the applet has finished loading (so the message box displays    undefined   ) . If I refresh the page, the applet has already been loaded and the alert displays    function myMethod() { [native code] }   , as you'd expect.     Of course, this means that the applet methods are not available until it has loaded, but Safari isn't blocking the JavaScript from running. The same problem happens with      body onLoad     .     What I need is something like      body onAppletLoad="doSomething()"     . How do I work around this issue?     Thanks     PS: I'm not sure if it's relevant, but the JAR is signed.  
  I use a timer that resets and keeps checking a number of times before it gives up.       Note that this assumes that the applet will run in Safari.  I've had some instances where an applet required Java 6 that simply hangs Safari even with code similar to the above.  I chose to do browser detection on the server and redirect the user to an error page when the browser doesn't support the applet.  
Thank you. It's a shame there isn't a cleaner way of doing this!
You can also simply check for applet. At least, you can in Firefox. I haven't checked in Chrome  &  IE. That way, you don't have to modify the applet to have a particular method.
  I had a similar problem some time ago and adding MAYSCRIPT to the applet tag solved my problem.     Take a peek at this page:   http://www.htmlcodetutorial.com/applets/%5FAPPLET%5FMAYSCRIPT.html       Hope it helps!  
I don't see how this is relevant to waiting for the applet to load. Also, the example on the page doesn't work in Firefox 3.5.4 on Snow Leopard.
AFAIU that only applies to IE.  In other words, not OS X  &  not Safari.
  Here is a generic function I wrote to do just this:       Call it like this:    
You could also try document.getElementById(applet_id).isActive to test if the applet is loaded in the above example, it worked for me. :)
But if you do that, document.getElementById(applet_id) will return null when it doesn't exist, and then it will throw a null reference exception of ".isActive". I didn't want to have to test by exception, that is very, very slow in JS.
As far as my tests go, `typeof (document.getElementById(applet_id))` always return `object`. Did you mean `typeof (document.getElementById(applet_id).someFunction)` ?
I think that depends on what your applet is and how it's configured. You may have to test both the element and the function. You can't just test typeof (document.getElementById(applet_id).someFunction) by it's self, as document.getElementById(applet_id) may return null early in the life cycle, throwing an invalid object exception when trying to access .someFunction.
ESRI frameworks: java vs javascript
  I'm about to develop a web mapping application with ESRI Products like ArcGIS Server and Image Server.     I can't find a good comparison between the Java Web ADF and the Javascript Framework. They're of course different because one is a full environment and the other is only client side but it's much more concise and the step to start is minimal.     Another problem is that the Java Web ADF is not compatible with our current application server (JBoss 4.2.2) and require an old 4.0.2 version.     Someone out there has experience that can help me?     Many thanks.  
Seems that everybody hate the Java Web ADF, http://www.spatiallyadjusted.com/2008/01/30/esris-web-adf-is-one-horrific-development-platform/
  I don't have direct experience with the Java Web ADF, but I have worked with the .Net version and am now working with the Flex API.     The main problem with the Web ADFs that I have seen and heard from other developers is that they're very cumbersome to use. The newer frameworks (Javascript, Silverlight, and Flex) are much lighter-weight, easier to use, and you can up to speed much quicker with them. For example, a test application I wrote withg the .Net ADF took me almost three weeks before I gave up on it. At that time I gave up using the ADF and just did WebService calls against ArcGIS Server since that was easier to do than to try to figure out the ADF. Contrast that to using the Flex API on a similar project, which I just started last week, and I have an almost complete app as of this morning.     I would avoid the ADFs and go with the Javascript API.  
  What you need depends on what you want. If you want to create just a viewer (as opposed to an application in which users can add (e.g. draw) geographical data), by all means, use the javascript api!     I've been working with the web adf (v9.3) for some time now and am still frustrated at every turn. Primarily for its lack of proper documentation, but also for various other reasons, such as these:       It requires you to use the jsf reference implementation, but it does not allow you to use some of its basic functionality, such as (f:)subviews. This makes it impossible to use any templating systems, such as facelets.     Lots of stuff you want to be able to configure is hardcoded in esri's jar files. For example, the map MUST be directly under     form> which must be the first element of the DOM tree. If not, map-movement listeners such as the ContinueousPanListener are unable to find the map and hence fail at updating the map position.     It's impossible to code your jsp pages in xml style, since the web adf inlines pieces of  at a lot of places in your code, with xslt.     Its learning curve is very steep and without the proper docs, you'll be looking for days or even weeks on how to do the most trivial things. Some of these end up to be downright impossible or impractical, because you're not adopting esri's mindset.     The default interface is not very intuitive. You may still end up doing lots of work in javascript to get the way the application draws to your liking.     The undo functionality requires a versioned database, which is impractical/impossible for application that serves more than 10 or so users at the same time, plus, the round trip to the server for every undo action is a waste.       In short: You can make some interesting apps and if you know your stuff, there's work a plenty to be found in the sector, but if its just for 'some project', I'd switch to some.. any! other framework, such as openGeo..  
I accepted your answer because is the most complete, but thanks to everybody for yours time.
  Web ADF was ESRI's first attempt to create an ArcGIS Server simplified API. However, as time progressed, the Web ADF ended up with its own abstractions that were as complicated as the "standard" ArcGIS Server ArcObjects API and not as powerful. Therefore, I would recommend the later incarnations... javascript, flex, etc  
  Its depends on the requirements. I java web adf you could have more flexiblity to use arcobjects compared to java script api. i am using .net adf     i was wanted to move to jsapi. but due to limitation of arcobject usage in jsapi i am still with web adf. I think still jsapi is not grown as compared to web adf. for just viwer     small task js api is fine. but if you are creating complex tasks     geoprocessing then its worth to stick with web adf.  
  there is good blog post on    ESRI Developer Blog    today. have a look.  
  If you need to edit geospatial data then you have to use the Web ADF which is access to the ArcObjects.     If you are just working with viewing data maybe some redlines that are not saved to your geodatabase then JavaScript API works nice.     Geoprocessing can be done in the JSAPI.  You can also publish models and use them in the JSAPI.      I hear that the newer APIs - JavaScript API will have the ability to edit in the near future.     As is mentioned the web ADF is broad and fairly complex.  It has a good learning curve to it.  I have just started getting my head around it and figuring out the logic.  I am using the .NET ADF v9.3.1  I have not had many problems with it once I started figuring out the API.  It is not for the casual user.  
  You can do editing via the JSAPI using a geoprocessing service too. Version 2.0 (due out with ArcGIS Server 9.4) will have editing capabilities built in. That said, if a plan involves exposing editing of geospatial data via a public facing webpage, that plan needs to be rethought. If you are working internally, ArcGIS Engine is probably a better option.  
  Stay far, far away from the Java Web ADF.  I would rather stick hot irons in my eyes than develop with the ADF.  It doesn't work well with other JSF frameworks, any custom functionality results in you trying to develop javascript - but only by first embedding the javascript within XSL page fragments. It is cumbersome, confusing, but - at least it is slow.     ESRI is not recommending the Java Web ADF for any new applications.   
  We've just gone through the same thing and it would appear the ESRI REST APIs are the way to go if you want a lightweight services based application with a 'rich' front end, rather than the ADF bloat.     There's a good summary of all the ESRI frameworks on their UK site    here   .  
  Editing with the REST API and the client API's (JS, Flex, Silverlight) will be available at version 10 (verison 9.4 renamed) which will be released in Summer 2010.     This thread is a bit old now, but I concur with those who suggest not using the Java ADF. Use the JavaScript, Flex or Silver light API's as they scale much better. If you need to perform GIS actions on the server then use the SOAP API in a custom web service. Only look at ArcObjects when you definitely have to  and then make sure you use a Server Object Utility or extension to give yourself the best chance of making a online application that runs quickly.       http://edndoc.esri.com/arcobjects/9.2/net_server_doc/developer/samples/web_applications/arcgis_simple_server_object_extension/8e8b2bf6-1877-4c48-80fe-266f5fa70f57.htm    
Is it possible to create arbitrary Java objects from JavaScript in ie?
  LiveConnect is a Mozilla technology that bridges Java and JavaScript. Amazingly, they've started maintaining it again for recent versions of Firefox. In Firefox I can write e.g.       or use the    Packages.    namespace if it's not a java.something       or I could go crazy and call a factory method in swing       easily instantiating any Java object. Is there an equivalent that works in ie?  
Why don't you try it?
"Java has as much in common with JavaScript as a car has with a carpet." If you can do this in Firefox, it's leaking abstractions badly, not to mention allowing external webpage to run locally executed code on visitor's computer.
Of course I tried it, and of course it doesn't work this way in ie. It should be obvious that the question means 'what is the syntax for doing the same thing in ie'.
@Esko: If it is a leaky abstraction, then Firefox is leaking all over computers everywhere. The security model protects you from doing silly things like being able to access the local file system: `var f = new java.io.File("test.txt"); document.write(f.exists());` results in: `Error: uncaught exception: Error calling method on NPObject! [plugin exception: java.security.AccessControlException: access denied (java.io.FilePermission test.txt read)].` However, `var s = new java.lang.StringBuilder("Hello"); s.append(", World!"); document.write(s);` works just fine: `Hello, World!`
@joeforker: I really wished this worked everywhere. Imagine having the entire Java class library (minus anything forbidden by access control) at your disposal in client-side JavaScript!
@Grant As of JDK 6 update 10, applets *have* that .Packages object exposing the entire Java class library, even in ie. Who knew?
  As far as I know, I don't think this is possible - Java and Javascript are completely different. It just so happens that the JS API contains a Date object, as does the Java API.       Edit:    The Java Scripting API (   http://java.sun.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/scripting/programmer%5Fguide/index.html#jsengine   ) seems to be the closest you can get to what you're trying to do.  
@Tom: His code is actually creating a Java `Date` and referencing it from client-side JavaScript. Consider: `var r = new java.util.Random(); document.write(r.nextBoolean() + ';' + r.nextDouble() + ';' + r.nextFloat() + ';' + r.nextGaussian()  + ';' + r.nextInt() + ';' + r.nextLong());` Client-side JavaScript doesn't have a `Random()` object, and it certainly doesn't have any `next*()` methods available.
  You are using LiveConnect which is a Mozilla-specific JavaScript/Java bridge. It is not supported in other browsers.  
  What you can do in Internet Explorer is load an applet into the page which exposes methods that do the things you want to do. You get a reference to the applet, then invoke methods on that reference.       In your applet you'd need a public method    getDateFromApplet()    that returns a    java.util.Date   .     Note that what I present    should    work, but it has been years since I did this (it worked in NS4, 6 and IE 4+ at the time). I didn't use    getElementById()    however, I used    var applet = document.myAppletName;   .     The other complication to this is that if you want this to execute on page load, the applet will almost certainly not be ready, which requires code something like:       Lastly, it might (should) be possible to do this with the      object      tag, but as I said, it has been years since I needed to interact with a Java applet in this way from client-side JavaScript, so I haven't tested it.  
The applet should just call a method on the page when it is ready?
How about if "the thing I want to do" is the Rhino eval() statement bundled with Java 6 :-)
@joeforker: 1) I'm not sure the applet can call a method on the page. You have to wait for the applet to be ready, then call into it from JavaScript. 2) Yes, the applet could potentially have a single public `do()` or `eval()` method that you just pass Java as plain text to and have it execute inside the applet on the browser.
If JavaScript tries to call applet methods before it's ready, the plugin will make the call wait until it's ready.
Still works, years ago MS released a javascript/java applet rpc proxy, called MSRS (microsoft remote scripting). I had to mantain a web application built using MSRS, and works well in IE7. The javascript library calls a public method of the java class, so I think your approach to this question will do the job too. http://www.ashleyit.com/rs/
  You could possibly use DWR or some other reverse ajax library that will allow you to create Java objects on the server side via Javascript objects.  
Interesting interpretation of the question.
  As of Java 1.6 update 10, the    Inter-Language LiveConnect Bridge    attaches a Packages object to applets within the page, just like the Packages object available in Firefox. So in a page with at least one applet, even in Internet Explorer,       returns the current date. It's also possible to register new converters for convenient access to non-Java languages running in the Java virtual machine. Of course JavaFX implements such a bridge.     It's not supposed to be necessary to wait for the applet to load before calling it from JavaScript but it's probably a good idea. The Java plugin will make JavaScript wait until the applet finishes loading or has an error. It    is    possible for the applet to call JavaScript in the web page as soon as Applet.init() is called.  
  You could make the properties of your objects available through a JSON response from your servlet in JAVA? Since JS can readily use JSON and it is light weight it makes for an easy way to crate JS Objects from your Java Objects.      Also look at the Rhino JavaScript engine and making Java resources available from JavaScript.   https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Rhino_documentation    
Running a JavaScript command from MATLAB to fetch a PDF file
  I'm currently writing some    MATLAB    code to interact with my company's internal reports database. So far I can access the HTML abstract page using code which looks like this:       I can extract out various bits of information from the HTML text which ends up in the variable    s   , however the PDF of the report is accessed via what I believe is a    JavaScript    command (onClick="gotoFulltext('','[Report Number]')").     Any ideas as to how I execute this JavaScript command and get the contents of the PDF file into a MATLAB variable?     (MATLAB sits on top of Java, so I believe a Java solution would work...)  
  I think you should take a look at the JavaScript that is being called and see what the final request to the webserver looks like.     You can do this quite easily in Firefox using the FireBug plugin.       https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/1843       Once you have found the real server request then you can just request this URL or post to this URL instead of trying to run the JavaScript.  
pjp's is the only sensible approach. You should also have the developer of the web interface to the internal database taken out and shot - or at least tell them to learn about progressive enhancement ;-)
This looks a very promising route - I now have a URL which gets me the PDF - all I need to do now is work out how to get it into a variable... Firebug is rather handy!
Yes it's pretty nice.
  Once you have gotten the correct URL (a la    the answer from pjp   ), your next problem is to "get the contents of the PDF file into a MATLAB variable". Whether or not this is possible may depend on what you mean by "contents"...               If you want to get the raw data in the PDF file   , I don't think there is a way currently to do this in MATLAB. The    URLREAD    function was the first thing I thought of to read content from a URL into a string, but it has this note in the documentation:            s = urlread('url')    reads the content   at a URL into the string    s   . If the   server returns binary data,    s    will   be unreadable.       Indeed, if you try to read a PDF as in the following example,    s    contains some text intermingled with mostly garbage:                 If you want to get the text from the PDF file   , you have some options. First, you can use    URLWRITE    to save the contents of the URL to a file:       Then you should be able to use one of two submissions on    The MathWorks File Exchange    to extract the text from the PDF:         Extract text from a PDF document    by    Dimitri Shvorob         PDF Reader    by    Tom Gaudette         If you simply want to    view    the PDF, you can just open it in Adobe Acrobat with the    OPEN    function:    
My problem at the moment is that the URL requires authentication to access the contents, and I can't work out how to provide it via urlread. I believe there might be a route using a Java URL object. Using the webbrowser method above I can *see* the pdf document on screen, which is frustratingly close to what I want. The text from PDF functions look useful...
The `URLREAD` and `URLWRITE` functions allow for optional parameters to be passed to them. You would have to find out what the parameter names are for the authentication, then pass them along with the parameter values as a cell array. An example appears on this documentation page: http://www.mathworks.com/access/helpdesk/help/techdoc/matlab_prog/f5-136137.html#f5-136158
Dimitri Shvorob's solution for converting the PDF file to text works nicely
@Ian: As expected... Dimitri is a well-respected contributor to the File Exchange. =)
 
captcha Image link on html page
  HI, I am using a bot program in which i want to find out the link of captcha  image so that i can display on a Jframe. When i am looking to page source their is no image link of captcha on it.It is generated on by javascript. Please some body help me.     Thanks in advance.  
What about if you inspect the dom using firebug?  It should show up then, then you can grab it dynamically with javascript if you need to.
Not to put too fine a point on it, but the captcha is there _for a reason_. If you need the content behind it, contact the publisher; they clearly don't want it grabbed by bots.
  Why do you want to do this? It is likely that looking at the requirement rather than the technical solution would be the best option here. If you have a bot that wishes to spider information "protected" by a Captcha then contacting the providers and asking for direct access to the data would likely be a much better option that the cat     mouse game you will enter without the providers permission to access said content.     You could use a JavaScript interpreter to run the script. Java 6 comes with one    built in    or you could embed the complete HTML frame in a browser for the manual part.  
How is this an answer.
Upload image thumbnail to server, without uploading whole image
  As far as I know, what I ask here isn't possible, but I thought I'd ask anyway in case I'm missing something.     Suppose you want to let users upload JPG images, and these images are scaled into smaller icons and the original images are always discarded and never required again. Is there any way that would commonly work in most modern browsers that would let the user select a single image on their hard drive, have that LOCALLY turned into a thumbnail and upload the created thumbnail to a server?     In a case where the server just needs a small image, it would be wasteful both in user time and server resources to proceed uploading the whole image, only to immediately discard it. It would be much better to just scale it on the client.     I can imagine three options. Just plain HTML/Javascript, using Flash or using Java. If this were possible with Flash, that would seem like the best option. But reading flash.net.FileReference documentation, it seems that you can upload a file from the HD yes, but you cannot look inside the file you are uploading. On the other hand, if you enable "can access local files" in Flash publishing options, it seems that you can then no longer access the net, so that doesn't work.     With HTML/Javascript, it is possible to load images and display them on a      canvas     , but if you try to access the pixels of these images, you get security violations, so that doesn't seem to work.     Java I hesitate to use, because only 96.52% of my users have it installed, and the file upload dialogs I have seen implemented in Java (at Facebook for example) have not worked well (unresponsive interface). I wonder though if Java is the only thing allowing resizing images from local HD?  
  I think if there was a reasonably reliable and user-friendly way to accomplish this, it'd be done on sites like Facebook already. People are used to having to upload the original image... it's always nice to be able to improve on an established UX, but if you can only match it, you're not exactly losing out.     JavaScript is out, because JS cannot read anything directly from the client; it can only direct the browser to load a pre-defined local path, or load bytes from the server.     Flash's security sandbox also prevents this, as you pointed out.     Java has a different set of problems - people rarely install applets these days unless they trust the site more than their own family members. It's also apparently extremely difficult to build something reliable    and    usable, as evidenced by Facebook-esque companies which have practically unlimited resources to throw at the problem and still fail.     So, in summary - no, and don't worry too much about it.  
  If the jpeg image is progressive, you could stop uploading after a certain amount of resolution is acquired. This will require a bit of your own processing of the jpeg loader and http handling code.     It's also a pretty big "IF", since most jpegs are not progressive by default.  
       "If this were possible with Flash, that   would seem like the best option."       As I understand it, it is possible with Flash Player 10.     Here's an example:       http://blog.kukiel.net/2009/02/file-manipulation-client-side-with.html       Flash Player 10 currently has a general market penetration of about 85-90%, so if you hesitate to use Java because only 96.52% of your user have it installed, I guess you wouldn't want to require Flash Player 10 either.    
Good Link. Since FlashPlayer 10, it's possible to manipulate, or, better said, interpret data on client side.
  Another way is to use Google's Gears, ex.:    Gears Uploader   .  
  I think that you can upload the image to server, then show it in the browser, then the user will be resize it using javascript, but not real resize, only capture the coordenate of it, then you can use the coordeante to resize the image in the server and save the new image (thumb) and discard the original.  
How do I send messages from Javascript to Java?
  I'm kind of stuck because I can get JavaScript to send a message to a Java applet. I can get it to work the other way round. Does anyone know a proper way to do this that works everywhere?  
So what have you done (with source code)? What browsers is it failing on? Have you followed the instructions here: http://devedge-temp.mozilla.org/library/manuals/2000/javascript/1.3/guide/lc.html
http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/docs/guide/plugin/developer_guide/js_java.html#how
I only use Safari right now. And i've looked at both documents
  For calling Java from JavaScript, you can have public methods in your applet that you call from JavaScript. See    this post    for more information.     For calling JavaScript from Java, you use    JSObject   .  
  You may need to add      PARAM NAME="scriptable" VALUE="true"      to the    OBJECT    or    APPLET    tag.  
Wooh! It worked. Thanks :D
Implementing the "system" command in Java
  I have need for a "system" function call, the same as those in Python, Perl, PHP, Ruby,    c.  It will be a component of a JavaScript standard library called Narwhal, when it's run on the Rhino JavaScript engine, which is in turn run on Java.     The trouble is that Java's standard library appears to have abstracted away the ability to spawn a subprocess that shares the parent process's stdio.  This means that you can't defer interactivity to the subprocess.     My first crack at this was to implement Python's subprocess.popen.  This uses three "pumper" threads to actively copy the parent process's stdio independently (to prevent deadlock).  Unfortunately this is giving us two problems.  First, the input does not close automatically when the sub-process voluntarily exits.  Second, the streams to the child process do not buffer and flush properly.     I'm looking for solutions that would make our require("os").system() command work as one would expect.     The project is at    http://narwhaljs.org       Relevant code:         http://github.com/tlrobinson/narwhal/blob/d147c160f11fdfb7f3c0763acf352b2b0e2713f7/lib/os.js#L10         http://github.com/tlrobinson/narwhal/blob/d147c160f11fdfb7f3c0763acf352b2b0e2713f7/engines/rhino/lib/os-engine.js#L37      
  You need to monitor the process exit-status separately, either by polling the exit code or by having a separate thread waiting in the      Process.waitFor()      method.     On the matter of buffering and flushing the streams, I don't thing there is an easy solution. There are several Java-classes which do buffering in different forms (     BufferedInputStream     , etc). Maybe one of them can help?  
@Joachim: thanks for the added links!
  Not sure if this is what you're looking for, but you can invoke the C    system    function through the    JNA library   :       Cursory testing worked on Windows, anyhow.  
Adding the jni.jar, this bit of JavaScript did the trick.  Thank you!     var jna = Packages.com.sun.jna;     var clib = jna.NativeLibrary.getInstance(jna.Platform.isWindows() ? "msvcrt" : "c");     var csystem = clib.getFunction("system");     csystem.invoke(["echo Hello, World!"]); http://gist.github.com/181225
  If I'm understanding you properly, you want something like that:       I found this piece of code in:    JavaWorld    sometime ago when I was looking for a similar solution to wrap system calls to some exe files.     My code has evolved a bit since then, but I think is a good example.  
+1 for the concurrent consumption
  It's really important to consume the process standard output and error    concurrently   . See Carlos Tasada's example code elsewhere here.      If you don't do this your code may (or may not) work depending on the output from your spawned process. As and when that output changes (if your spawned process encounters an error, say) then without the concurrent consumption your process will deadlock. Most of the issues I see on SO related to    Process.exec()    are blocking related.  
RSA code in both Javascript and Java
  I want to find the RSA code in both Javascript and Java code. And they can return the same result in encrypt and decrypt.     My purpose is: I can encrypt a message in the user's browser using Javascript (with the public key). After I can decrypt that message in my server (with private key).     I found on internet but Javascript and Java return difference result: if I encrypt using Javascript, I cannot decrypt using Java.  
This sounds like a homework assignment, but I could be wrong.
The "give me the code" part is offensive, but the basic idea is itself broken.
SSL already provides a secure link from browser to server.  If anything on your site is that sensitive, it should be behind SSL.  Rolling your own security should only be a last resort unless you really really know what you're doing (and you wouldn't be asking this question if you did).
  This is not a good idea.     RSA public key encryption is suitable for encrypting a session key, not the entire message.  It's too slow and it's susceptible to a man-in-the-middle attack when used directly.     Just use SSL and be done with it.  
  I am curious why the javascript and java had different results, as RSA isn't platform dependent, but, converting the key to a byte array can differ, so that could be your difficulty.       If you are encrypting a password then it may make sense to use RSA, as the number of bytes that can be encrypted/decrypted is related to the length of the key.     Where you found the source code for Java and Javascript would be useful to see, or at least to know how the keys were turned into byte arrays, and then the private or public keys were created from those.  
James, you might want to take a look at this person's track record.
I dont know the reason. Maybe in JS and Java have the difference in the code. For example in java generating the public is only return  one String result like: "MIGfMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBAQUAA4GNAD.....". But in javascript, the key need 3 parameters for key: m,e,d. Like the following example.  m = 1d7777c38863aec21ba2d91ee0faf51 e = 5abb d = 1146bd07f0b74c086df00b37c602a0b (Please see the example: http://ohdave.com/rsa/ )
If you look at http://bouncycastle.org/docs/docs1.6/index.html, look at PublicKeyFactory and RSAPublicKeyStructure, and see that the encoding is ASN.1 encoded.  The encoding is what is important, as that is how a key will be converted into something that can be sent over the Internet. In order to have the three things listed you can generate the public and private key, so javascript should never get it. You need to find a library using an encoded public key and then find a library that will use that encoding.
  Here is a simple RSA algorithm for Javascript (numbers only); you can easily convert it to Java by following the source code of the page:       http://www.alporal.com/rsa.htm    
How do you automate Javascript minification for your Java web applications?
  I'm interested in hearing how you prefer to automate Javascript minification for your Java web apps. Here are a few aspects I'm particularly interested in:       How does it    integrate?    Is it part of your build tool, a servlet filter, a standalone program post-processing the WAR file, or something else?     Is it    easy to enable and disable   ? It's very unfunny to try and debug a minified script, but it's also useful for a developer to be able to test that the minification doesn't break anything.     Does it work    transparently   , or does it have any side effects (apart from the ones inherent in minification) that I have to consider in my day-to-day work?       Which minifier    does it use?     Does it    lack any features    that you can think of?     What do you like about it?     What    don't    you like about it?       This will mostly serve as a reference for my future projects (and hopefully other SOer's will find it informative, too), so all kinds of tools are interesting.     (Note that    this is not a question about which minifier is best   . We have plenty of those around already.)  
this looks really interesting, hadn't heard of it.  All the tools I have found in a quick search are manual tools that run once.  It be nice if there were a plug in for ant or maven.  Hopefully someone has a good answer.
And it appears someone did - check dfa's answer: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1379856/how-do-you-automate-javascript-minification-for-your-java-web-applications/1379935#1379935
  I tried two ways:       using a servlet filter. When in production mode, the filter is activated and it compress any data bounded to URL like *.css or *.js     using maven and    yuicompressor-maven-plugin   ; the compression is perfomed una-tantum, (when assembling the    production war   )       Of course the latter solution is better since it does not consume resources at runtime (my webapp is using google app engine) and it doesn't complicate your application code. So assume this latter case in the following answers:          How does it integrate? Is it part of your build tool, a servlet filter, a standalone program post-processing the WAR file, or something else?       using maven          Is it easy to enable and disable? It's very unfunny to try and debug a minified script, but it's also useful for a developer to be able to test that the minification doesn't break anything.       you activate it only when assemblying the final war; in development mode you see the uncompressed version of your resources          Does it work transparently, or does it have any side effects (apart from the ones inherent in minification) that I have to consider in my day-to-day work?       absolutely          Which minifier does it use?       YUI compressor          Does it lack any features that you can think of?       no, it is very complete and easy to use          What do you like about it?       it is integrated with my favourite tool (maven) and the plugin is in the central repository (a good maven citizen)  
Maven plugin - nice. Too bad my current projects all use ant :)
you can create a target that build a "production war file", using the YUI ant task
  Our project has handled it a number of ways but we have continued to use the    YUI Compressor    through our different iterations.     We initially had a servlet handle the compression for JavaScript the first time that particular file was accessed; it was then cached.  We already had a system in place to handle custom property files so we simply updated our configuration files to support enabling or disabling the compressor depending on the environment we were working in.     Now the development environments never use compressed JavaScript for debugging purposes.  Instead we handle the compression in our build process when exporting our application to a WAR file.     Our client has never raised concerns about the compression and the developers don't notice it until they decide to debug JavaScript.  So I'd say it's rather transparent with minimal, if any, side affects.   
How do you use the YUI compressor from your build process? The Maven plugin or something else?
Sorry, we use Ant currently.  Here is a useful link for the Ant Task : http://blog.gomilko.com/2007/11/29/yui-compression-tool-as-ant-task/
  We are using Ant task to minify js files with YUICompressor during production build and put result into a separated folder. Then we upload those files to a web server. You can find some good examples for YUI+Ant integration    in this blog   .     Here is an example:    
Snippet; nice. Do you retarget your `script src` on dev builds or do you just copy non-minified files into the compressed/js directory?
Just for production upload compressed files over original ones in public_html/js. Good thing is that there is no coding or path changes between local and production, the bad thing is that you have to do some manual upload and overwriting (I'm sure it can be automated, but for us it is not worth it, uploading few js files once in a while is not too big of a deal).
  Round-up post     If you post something new in this thread, edit this post to link to yours.         Ant    apply    task (using YUI Compressor)         Custom YUI Compressor Ant task         Maven YUI Compressor plugin         Granule (for JSP, JSF, Grails, Ant)         Ant macros for Google Closure compiler         wro4j (Maven, servlet filters, plain Java, etc)         ant-yui-compressor (ant task for compressing JS+CSS)         JAWR         Minify Maven Plugin         humpty      
  I think you need a compression library, for example Granule tag.       http://code.google.com/p/granule/       It gzip and combine javascripts wrapped by g:compress tag using different methods, also has Ant task as well     code sample is:    
Yes, that looks pretty nifty.
  I have written ant macros for Google Closure compiler and Yahoo compressor and include this file in different web projects.           Integration:      import file="build-minifier.xml" /      in your build.xml, then invoke as usual ant tasks:      gc-js dir="${build.js.dir}" src="prototype" /           yc-js-all dir="${build.js.dir}" /             Choice of two minifiers: Google Closure compiler and Yahoo compressor, you should download them manually and place near the xml file         Minifiers skip already compressed files (ending with    -min*   )         Usually I make three versions of script: uncompressed (e.g.    prototype.js   ) for debugging, compressed with closure compiler (   prototype-min-gc.js   ) for production server, compressed with Yahoo (   prototype-min-yc.js   ) for troubleshooting because closure compiler uses risky optimizations and sometimes produces invalid compressed file and Yahoo compressor is more safe         Yahoo compressor can minify all files in a dir with single macro, Closure compiler cannot      
  I think one of the best and right tool for the job is    wro4j    Check out    https://code.google.com/p/wro4j/       It does everything you need:       Keep project web resources (js     css) well organized     Merge     minify them at run-time (using a simple filter) or build-time (using maven plugin)     Free and open source: Released under an Apache 2.0 license     several minification tools supported by wro4j: JsMin, Google Closure compressor, YUI etc      Very easy to use. Supports Servlet Filter, Plain Java or Spring Configuration     Javascript and CSS Meta Frameworks Support: CoffeeScript, Less, Sass etc     Validation: JSLint, CSSLint etc       Can run in debug as well as production modes. Just specify all the files it should handle/pre-process and it does the rest.      You can simply include merged, minified and compressed resource like this:    
Seems like a nifty tool indeed. Thanks for updating!
  This worked for me:    https://bitbucket.org/m6_russell_francis/yui-compressor-ant-task/wiki/Home      
I got the ${jar.yui.compressor} from search.maven.org: http://search.maven.org/#search|gav|1|g%3A%22com.yahoo.platform.yui%22%20AND%20a%3A%22yuicompressor%22
  I'm really surprised no one mentioned    JAWR    -    https://jawr.java.net/       It's pretty mature and supports all standard features that are to be expected, and a bit more. Here is how it holds against the OP's excellent criteria.          How does it integrate? Is it part of your build tool, a servlet   filter, a standalone program post-processing the WAR file, or   something else?       It originally did the processing/heavy-lifting at application startup and serving was based on a    servlet   . Starting with 3.x they added support for    integrating at build time   .     Support for JSP and Facelets is provided through a custom JSP tag library to import processed resources. In addition to that, a JS resources loader is implemented which supports    loading the resources from static HTML pages   .          Is it easy to enable and disable? It's very unfunny to try and debug a   minified script, but it's also useful for a developer to be able to   test that the minification doesn't break anything.       A    debug=on    option is available to use before application startup, and a custom    GET    parameter can be specified at individual requests in production to toggle debug mode selectively at runtime for said request.          Which minifier does it use?       For JS it supports YUI Compressor and JSMin, for CSS I'm not sure.          Does it lack any features that you can think of?         SASS    support comes to mind. That said, it does support    LESS   .  
  I'm writing a framework for managing web assets, called    humpty   . It aims to be simpler and more modern than jawr or wro4j by using WebJars and ServiceLoaders.          How does it integrate? Is it part of your build tool, a servlet filter, a standalone program post-processing the WAR file, or something else?       In development, a servlet processes the assets as necessary. The assets would then be pre-compiled before production and placed in a public folder, so that the only part that is used is generating the correct includes in the HTML.          Is it easy to enable and disable? It's very unfunny to try and debug a minified script, but it's also useful for a developer to be able to test that the minification doesn't break anything.       That would be done by switching between development and production modes.          Does it work transparently, or does it have any side effects (apart from the ones inherent in minification) that I have to consider in my day-to-day work?       I believe it is transparent, but does strongly favour the use of WebJars.          Which minifier does it use?       Whichever one the plugin you put on your classpath uses. Currently looking at writing a plugin for the Google Closure Compiler.          Does it lack any features that you can think of?       Still pre-release, though I'm using it in production. The maven plugin still needs a lot of work.          What do you like about it?       The simplicity of just adding a dependency to configure the framework          What don't you like about it?       It's my baby, I love it all ;)  
How to fill HTTP forms through java?
  I want to fill a text field of a HTTP form through java and then want to click on the submit button through java so as to get the page source of the document returned after submitting the form. I can do this by sending HTTP request directly but I don't to this in this way.     Very Urgent. You can also paste the code or demo code to explain in a better way.  
You mean HTML Form right?  Please note "Very Urgent" is considered rude here.
  You would probably need to write a Java Applet, as the only other way than sending a direct request would be to have it interface with the browser.      Of course, for this to work, you would have to embed the applet in the page.  If you don't control the page, this can't be done.  If you do control the page, you might as well be using Javascript, instead of trying to get a Java Applet to do it, which would be much more cumbersome and difficult.       Just to clarify, what is the problem you are having creating an HTTP Request and why do you want to use a different method?  
  I usually do it using    HtmlUnit   . They have an example on their page :       And you can read more    here.    
Any more projects like HtmlUnit, preferably from apache or google ?
  If you don't want to talk HTTP directly (why?), then take a look at    Watij   .     It allows you to invoke a browser (IE) as a COM control within your Java process, navigate through page elements by using their document ids etc., fill in forms and press buttons. Because it's running a browser, Javascript will run as normal (like if you were doing this manually).  
A lot of thanks. I was just looking the same option and found it as the best option that suits my need.
In your other post you mention linux. Not sure if it's the same app, but Watij is Windows only.
Yes it is the same App. I need to run the app on linux (debian). Can you suggest me the same thing like watij for linux. It's urgent. Second problem, com/jniwrapper/win32/ie/WebBrowser class not found.. From where can I download that library
Any more projects like Watij, preferably from apache or google ?
IPv6 address validation and canonicalization
  What libs have you used for that?  How compatible are they with one another?  Or did you write your own parsing routine?     I'm particularly interested in mutually-compatible implementations for Java, C++, Python, and JavaScript, which support:       zero compression ("   ::   ")     IPv4-mapped addresses ("   ::ffff:123.45.67.89   ")     canonicalization (including to the short form, for human readability)     CIDR-style netmasks (like "   /64   " at the end)    
  From what I can gather, you should use      getaddrinfo()      on systems that have it, i.e. Linux and POSIX places. There should be no need to write your own low-level parser.     Windows    also provides       getaddrinfo()   , on XP and later.  
I don't think getaddrinfo supports parsing subnet bit-slicing notation.  It also doesn't support canonicalization.
  In Java, You could use        and then check for exceptions thrown by this for validating IPv6 addresses     You could also use Sun Propreitary API if thats oK to you. THis will not perform a DNS lookup. ( They might change it/remove it without notice since its their propreitary API.This is a warning that will come when compiling a code using this )    
Thanks for the idea. Unfortunately that method does a DNS lookup before throwing the exception.
Okie.. I looked into source code of InetAddress. Its using sun.net.util.IPAddressUtil class. Its a sun propreietary API. But if that's okie to you, you could use it. Use the static method isIPv6LiteralAddress(String IP). It returns true or false
IPAddressUtil works great.  I guess I can cope with canonicalization too, via textToNumericFormatV*(String) and some custom formatting back to text. +1 and I wish I could accept more than one answer.
Wow. Glad i could help! :) No prob at all!
You can use Guava's InetAddresses to avoid the lookup
  On POSIX systems you can use    inet_pton    and    inet_ntop    in combination to do canonicalization.  You will still have to do your own CIDR parsing.  Fortunately, I believe the only valid CIDR syntax for IPv6 is the /number_of_bits notation, so that's fairly easy.     The other issue you will run into is the lack of support for interface specifications.  For link-local addresses, you will see things like    %eth0    on the end to specify what link they are local too.     getaddrinfo    will parse that but    inet_pton    won't.     One strategy you could go for is using    getaddrinfo    to parse and    inet_ntop    to canonicalize.       getaddrinfo    is available for Windows.     inet_pton    and    inet_ntop    aren't.  Fortunately, it isn't too hard to write code to produce a canonical form IPv6 address.  It will require two passes though because the rule for 0 compression is the biggest string of 0s that occurs first.  Also IPv4 form (i.e.    ::127.0.0.1   ) is only used for    ::IPv4    or    ::ffff:IPv4   .     I have no Windows machine to test with, but from the documentation it appears that Python on Windows supports    inet_pton    and    inet_ntop    in its socket module.     Writing your own routine for producing a canonical form might not be a bad idea, since even if your canonical form isn't the same as everybody else's, as long as it's valid other people can parse it.  But I would under no circumstances write a routine of your own to    parse    IPv6 addresses.     My advice above is good for Python, C, and C++.  I know little or nothing about how to solve this problem in Java or Javascript.       EDIT   : I have been examining getaddrinfo and its counterpart, getnameinfo.  These are in almost all ways better than    inet_pton    and    inet_ntop   .  They are thread safe, and you can pass them options (   AI_NUMERICHOST    in    getaddrinfo   's case, and    NI_NUMERCHOST    in    getnameinfo   's case) to keep them from doing any kind of DNS queries.  Their interface is a little complex and reminds me of an ugly Windows interface in some respects, but it's fairly easy to figure out what options to pass to get what you want.  I heartily recommend them both.  
I would like to comment that after playing with getaddrinfo myself, the OSX 10.4 and glibc-2.10.1 versions both have interesting bugs.  The OSX version has much worse bugs.
Windows does support inet_pton and inet_ntop for Vista and later (see http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc805843%28VS.85%29.aspx). However, Python 2.6 and 3.0 does not (docs indicate Availability Unix).
Watch out for speed in Windows. For some reason the Windows inet_pton and inet_ntop are horribly horribly slow. Or they were in my experience on Vista and Server 2008.
  For Python, the best solution might be IPy (   http://pypi.python.org/pypi/IPy/0.51   )  
  It's too bad Python 3.1 lost the ipaddr lib.     It's still available as a third-party library:    py-ipaddr    available on    PyPI   .     Compression       IPv4 mapping       CIDR    
  getaddrinfo already returns the shortest textual form, so if you have the longer form you can canonicalize by running through getaddrinfo again.  Example Python,       Outputs the following,       IPv6 CIDR blocks don't appear to be well documented or defined so I wrote my own    inet6_network implementation    to handle that (C99).  
  I wrote    javascript-ipv6    for this very purpose. It currently powers    v6decode.com   .     Here's a short example of the API:    
  I use a regular expression when os support may not be available - RE is available in most languages, including C/C++/Java/Python/Perl/bash/....  The following python code builds the RE at startup, the resulting RE source is a humdinger - but once compiled by the re engine is as fast as native code.    
  In Java, the Guava library has utility functions for validating IPv6 (and IPv4) in the com.google.common.net.InetAddresses class.     http://goo.gl/RucRU    
best practice: how to host server-side code in the maven repository
  What is the best way to put javascript/html/css code in the maven repository, so that is easily usable by java projects.     Is there a way to do it such that the included project can be easily made "web-visible" by the including project?     For example assume I write a very useful tricks.js file an put it in the mvn repository.     Is it possible to create a web project that adds tricks.js as a dependency and then doing       causes the tricks.js file to be served?  
  You can pack it into jar and then unpack it by maven plugins.  
Yes, that is the best practice.
I use this practice with GWT.
Although I have never needed to do this myself, this seems like the best approach with Maven's architecture and standards.
  External resources should be packaged into an artifact and published to the repository  (for simplicity use a jar artifact, but you could specify an    assembly    to package a zip instead to make it clear what the artifact is for). The    maven-dependency-plugin    unpacks the jar's contents into a specified location in the war project. That folder is then specified as an    external web resources     directory for the maven-war-plugin.     The following configuration will unpack the contents of    my-resources    into the    target/external-resources    directory, then include the contents of that folder in the war as if they'd been defined in src/main/resources.    
Simile Timeline
  I'm sure many will know of Simile Timeline (   http://www.simile-widgets.org/timeline/   ), the JavaScript-based widget for embedding interactive timelines into web sites.     Timeline is open source software and is licensed under the BSD license.     How would I go about using Similie Timeline in a Java desktop application that has no Internet access?  
    Rhino    is JS interpreter and related tools for the JVM managed by the Mozilla project. I suspect it  would be a good place to start.   
  You should just be able to include some sort of 'web browser' control, and then write the relevant html/javascript into it, do get it to render appropriately. Long time no Java, so I can't think of the name of the in-built one, but I suspect one exists.     -- Edit     Actually, it seems that the in-built control I am thinking of (JEditorPane) doesn't support JavaScript. Perhaps this will be interesting :    http://lobobrowser.org/java-browser.jsp   , but I'm not sure I'd go with the embedded approach, after all.  
Bouncing off your idea, I found this older thread about embedding browsers in Java: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/48249/java-embedding-a-web-browser-pane
how to access inner class field inside javascript
  I am having a inner class(static) named    SelectProdLineAssociationForm         I have also given a declaration like this--       now on onclick event I want to set the field in the inner class a value so i am        where selectedProdLineAssociationKey is passed in javascript method  then it giving javascript error that   document.forms[0].selectProdLineAssociationForm    is undefined can any one plz tell me why and how it can be resolved  
It is not clear if you are using struts or some other framework which maps server side java objects to client side HTML... Can you provide more details?
  you cannot access a java method or property from javascript. Javascript is purely client side.     one way you can do this is to print the property into a  block, and then you can access it from javascript, e.g.:       But you will not be able to change the value, unless you POST it back (and have the logic to change it on the serverside).  
  I am going for Struts here ... (as Massimiliano Fliri said, you have to provide more details).      You have to verify how your input tags were named in the HTML. Depending on how you wrote your JSP you might have an input tag named    selectProdLineAssociationForm.selectedProdLineAssociationKey    (one element).     This code :       says that your form contains    selectProdLineAssociationForm    that in turn contains    selectedProdLineAssociationKey    (two elements).     This is just a guess of what you are doing. You must provide more info if you want more help.  
Parsing JavaScript Date string in Java
  A JavaScript client sends some strings to my server, one of which comes in form of a JavaScript Date object's string representation.     Now, this JavaScript Date object has its own formatting and I was just wondering if there is a class that does the right conversion, as I am experiencing problems with the    SimpleDateFormatter   .     This is how a JavaScript Date string looks like:    Tue Feb 12 2013 21:12:28 GMT+0100 (CET)    
What are your problems with SimpleDateFormatter?
  Personally I prefer the    Joda Time    formatters for one main reason: they're thread-safe and immutable, so you can create one, keep it statically, and reuse it without any worries. Joda also allows easy specification of time zones etc. Of course, they end up creating Joda objects, which is another advantage IMO - I try to steer clear of Java's date/time API wherever possible.     Having said that, we'd need to know more about the format you're trying to parse, and what's going wrong with    SimpleDateFormatter   . (As a general rule, if you're "experiencing problems" with something and want those problems fixed, it helps to describe what the problems are, ideally with a short but complete program to demonstrate the problem.)  
  Best way to serialize the date in javascript is to use    toUTCString    (not just    toString()   );    toUTCString    will produce an rfc 822 date (in the same format as used by http). Then you can just use the following SimpleDateFormat pattern to parse it in java:    
How can you access a MySQL database from the web without using a servlet or PHP?
  I'm currently using a hosting service that offers users access to MySQL databases, but does not offer a Tomcat server or any other way to perform server side processing. So a three tier design is out.      Being a novice in Java and Javascript I was planning on using them on this project to gain more experience. I know nothing about PHP, which I've heard may be the solution to my problem. Does anyone know a way to use Java/Javascript to gain access to a MySQL database from the browser client?     Thanks, Mark  
Java is to JavaScript what Car is to Carpet.
I find it odd that your hosting service offers MySQL but no server-side "processing" (not sure exactly what you mean by that).  PHP is server-side.  So is ASP, ASP.NET, Perl, Python, etc, and all of them should be able to connect to your MySQL db.
Ahem.... http://www.alphaworks.ibm.com/tech/dbcjs Database Connectivity for JavaScript. Did I fail to mention security vulnerabilities anywhere?
  Javascript runs in a sandbox, and can not do things like opening files, connecting to a MySQL database and so on. Despite the similar name, Java and Javascript have nothing in common.     PHP and Java are both server side systems, and they are both able to connect to MySQL databases.  
  Your MySQL Installation should have a hostname and port associated with it. You can connect to that host/port via a different program(running elsewhere since you mentioned it is not available here). You can probably write your scripts on some place where you are allowed to do so and access the database via a network connection.  
True, though it's pretty common to have firewalls around the database server so that it can't be accessed from outside the building. Another thing to check on.
  PHP is indeed server-side, but many ISPs that don't provide JSP, ASP, etc, nevertheless do provide PHP. So that may actually be available to you. I guess the short answer is: Find out exactly what tools are available. If your ISP does not provide anything that meets your needs, find another ISP. I'm running several JSP/servlet sites on an ISP that charges me, I think it's $8 a month.  
  Java can access MySQL over TCP ... no browser API for JavaScript allows TCP, so JavaScript is not an option, except serverside JavaScript ... if you really want to have a direct connection, Java will probably be your choice ... you can create a Java applet, which will connect to the remote MySQL daemon, using  ... you may have to    sign it    though, in case the default sandbox does not allow this kind of communication ...     alternatively, you could use FlashPlayer 9+, in theory, but you'd have to implement the whole protocol in ActionScript 3 or haXe, so that's not so much of an option I guess ...     however, the 3 tier design you don't want, is really the best way to go, due to several reasons:       flexibility: if you introduce an extra layer between the client and the database, this gives you more power for later modifications and decouples client and DB ...     control: it is much easier to control/restrict access to the database      security: typically, you'd configure your MySQL DB, so that it will only accept connections from very few hosts, usually only localhost, and maybe one external server ... this way, the security of your DB practically is the security of the external server, since probably noone else even knows the DB ... I wouldn't say it's easy to secure a server ... but it's more secure than if you have numerous public accounts, that may access the DB from any host, over unsecure connections ...    
  So your hosting company provides a MySQL database, but no runtime to programmatically access/modify it?!  That is borderline worthless.  Are you sure you know what you're talking about?  
Not very diplomatically said, but essentially correct. If the ISP provides MySQL, they almost surely provide some way to create pages to access it. You just need to find out what. It's possible that the ISP is nuts and provides worthless tools, but probably not.
Accessing Local file from a browser?
  Hi I want to access a local file of my system from the browser? Is there anyway through which it can be achieved as there are lot of security checks invloved? or any other work arround using ActiveX or Java Applet???? Please help me out..  
  JavaScript won't work but you can use flash, ActiveX or a signed Java applet.  
  To access a local file through your browser, you can use a signed Java Applet. Through    JFileChooser    you can ask the user for a file, and if the applet is signed and you have configured properly the security of your applet, this will work.       Here    is the sun page on signing an applet.  
How to sign the applet? please can you help me in this regard..??
I modified my answer to add an information on signing
  From 6u10, unsigned Java applets can load and save files through a file chooser using the    JNLP service APIs   .  
Dynamic Forms in Spring
  I am trying to make a dynamic form using Spring forms. Basically, the form gets a title of learning activity and then there's the a button below it that says, "Add one more Learning Activity". This makes it possible for the user to add one more learning activity. I want him to be able to add as much as he likes.      I haven't tried this before so obviously I encountered errors  with the first solution I thought of. I really had a feeling doing what I did will generate an error but just do drive home what I am trying to do, here's the code:          
  Is      form:input      a JSP tag? If so, then client-side Javascript to add      form:input      nodes to the DOM will have no effect - since the server-side JSP engine is not interpreting those.     Your Javascript needs to work with raw HTML and DOM, such as adding an      input      element.  
Yes it's a jsp tag for Spring. I've thought of just brute-forcing the forms already by just getting the parameters from the request directly. However, I wanted to use Spring's SimpleFormController ability to bind the form fields to a command class.  I was just wondering if there's a way to do it in my situation.  Cheers!
  You can't use      form:input      within the javascript because  is a jsp tag that runs on the server-side.     However, there's nothing magical about how an HTML input gets bound to a field in the Spring command object; it's just based on the name.  So in your javascript, add a new      input type="text" name="activity[1].activity"     (for example -- obviously you'll increment the index).     Another option I've used for more complicated controls is to grab the HTML of the existing control (which was created using the Spring form:input tag) and clone it, replacing the indexes with the incremented number.  This gets a lot easier if you use jQuery.     EDITED TO ADD: One issue that may cause you problems: you're appending your new input box to the end of your outer div ("text"), which means it's not inside the form tags.  That won't work.  
I tried doing this but the the values of the generated forms are not bound to the command class. Only the one that I explicitly set in the spring form is bound e.g In the code above:     
"One issue that may cause you problems: you're appending your new input box to the end of your outer div ("text"), which means it's not inside the form tags. That won't work."  I addressed this already I appended the new input boxes inside another div within the form tags, still the appended input boxes don't bind.
Can you give an example of your appended input box?  I have used this approach to do exactly this and it does work.  An input box named "activity[1].activity" should bind to the second item in your activity list (assuming it has an "activity" field), etc.
I finally made it to work! Thanks a lot. :) Here's my blogpost about it: http://jeungun.wordpress.com/2009/09/18/binding-to-dynamically-generated-form-elements-in-spring-mvc/
Does anyone know where I can find the "Orto" Javascript JVM?
  I've read about "Orto", a Java virtual machine that runs on Javascript, but I can't find the actual code, only a few articles about it - like this one:    http://ejohn.org/blog/running-java-in-javascript/       Does anyone know where I can find Orto itself, or something else that can run Java bytecode on Javascript?     Note that the GWT doesn't meet my needs since it is a Java source code to Javascript compiler, not a Java bytecode to Javascript compiler.  My source language is Scala, so GWT won't work.  
  This might be the    homepage   . But it's all Japanese to me. I clicked a few random links and tried to use Google to translate it, but it didn't work for me.      Hope this helps.  
LOL: http://orto.jp/ means: http://translate.google.fr/translate?prev=hp &hl =fr &js =y &u =http%3A%2F%2Forto.jp%2F &sl =ja &tl =en &history _state0= Hair. NET provides hair restoration hair as well as useful information such as your eating good food and hair basics, supplements and other items, links. Not sure if that is what you are looking for;)
Welcome to the 10K world, by the way ;)
@VonC, yes that was not the link I meant to post. I've updated it, but it seems to be down
I know: I was checking both orto.accelart.jp and orto.jp, but both went down in 2008. Are you thinking what I am thinking? Internet ARCHIVE! Go...
http://translate.google.fr/translate?hl=fr &sl =ja &tl =en &u =http%3A%2F%2Fweb.archive.org%2Fweb%2F20080114024903%2Fhttp%3A%2F%2Forto.accelart.jp%2Findex.html
the cache is blocked for me at work, it is somewhat frustrating
  Downloads are under "Orto SDK" in the left-hand menu:       http://web.archive.org/web/20080114024903/http%3A//orto.accelart.jp/index.html       However, considering that the Orto project seems to have quietly died, you may be better off looking elsewhere.  
  The homepage of the project Orto was located at    http://orto-lang.com    and    http://orto.accelart.jp/    but seems that are not longer available.     I was able to download Orto SDK using the web archive. Check this:       http://web.archive.org/web/20080114024903/   http://orto.accelart.jp/index.html         It's dated January 2008  
For Windows, maybe: http://web.archive.org/web/20070306143200/orto.accelart.jp/archive/orto132ja.exe
What are the main competitors to Servoy?
  Our company uses Servoy for rapid application development. It is a 4GL environment, that can target web-applications running in Tomcat as well as Java applications, all from the same program.     While it is standards based, some aspects of the generated code are proprietary, which couples those applications to the Servoy environment and tools.     Is Servoy truly unique in terms of the feature set that it provides, or are there alternatives that provide similar feature set, but without the lockin?  
  Intellimaker offers a similar feature set. You might look into ThinkCap JX too.  
  With Servoy specifically, I would say no - at this stage.      You probably already know that Servoy isn't really unique in terms of the tools it uses to get the job done (hibernate and Rhino etc), but I would say that the style of development that you need to use for Servoy is fairly unique. I mean this in the sense that your form variables directly link to precached database results, leaving little or no need for OOP.     I believe until their documentation gets a whole lot better and they actually start gaining more popularity, then there may be a few more competitors or variations popping up.     Here is a list of other RAD development tools that are out there in case you are curious -    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_graphical_user_interface_builders_and_rapid_application_development_tools    
What's the equivalent of Java's Thread.sleep() in Javascript?
  What's the equivalent of Java's    Thread.sleep()    in Javascript?  
  You can either write a spin loop (a loop that just loops for a long period of time performing some sort of computation to delay the function) or use:       This will call 'Func1()' after 3 seconds.     Edit:     Credit goes to the commenters, but you can pass anonymous functions to setTimeout.       This is much more efficient and does not invoke javascript's eval function.  
I want the current thread to go for waiting state for specified number of seconds
Spinning a loop cause High CPU utilization.
I'd prefer to provide the function directly as an argument instead of quoting the function name: setTimeout( function() { ... }, 3000 );
You should *never* quote the first parameter for setTimeout pass an anonymous function or a function reference. The corrected version is: setTimeout(Func1, 3000);
(Quoting the first parameter of setTimeout invokes "eval()" unnecessarily.)
@Steve, if you want to pass any parameters to the method, you really don't have that option, you must quote.
What's the downside of quoting the first parameter?  It essentially executes whatever's in that block...  is it a matter of style or are there other considerations?
@Nick: No, if you want to pass parameters, you use a closure.
Ah, nevermind, missed your later comment.  Thanks Steve.
@Nick: Daniel is correct you wrap the code in an anonymous function.
  There's no direct equivalent, as it'd pause a webpage.  However there is a    setTimeout()   , e.g.:       Closure example (thanks Daniel):       The second argument is milliseconds before firing, you can use this for time events or waiting before performing an operation.       Edit:     Updated based on comments for a cleaner result.  
Again, *never* quote the first parameter of setTimeout. See my comments on Malaxeur's answer for more info.
  The simple answer is that there is no such function.     The closest thing you have is:       Note that you    especially    don't want to busy-wait (e.g. in a spin loop), since your browser is almost certainly executing your JavaScript in a single-threaded environment.     Here are a couple of other SO questions that deal with threads in JavaScript:         http://stackoverflow.com/questions/30036/javascript-and-threads         http://stackoverflow.com/questions/39879/why-doesnt-javascript-support-multithreading         And this question may also be helpful:         http://stackoverflow.com/questions/797115/javascript-settimeout-without-putting-code-into-a-string      
(+1) look at setTimeout() and setInterval() in javascript
To promote good coding practices, it might be best to insert a semi-colon after "500" and initialise "millisecondsToWait" in the code sample (e.g. by preceding it with "var ") (this way, if someone copies and pastes the sample, they won't end up with an implied global).
Good catch, Steve.  I've edited my answer to reflect your comments.
ES6 will have a new operator `yield` which can be used to "simulate" threads. See http://taskjs.org/ for an example library.
  Or maybe you can use the setInterval function, to call a particular function, after the specified number of milliseconds. Just do a google for the setInterval prototype.I don't quite recollect it.  
  Try with this code. I hope it's useful for you.    
does exactly what it is supposed to
This doesn't put the thread to sleep, it just consumes the thread with wasteful calculation that is likely to block the UI. Not recommended.
That's a "busy wait" a.k.a you are "burning the thread"
For my unit testing purposes its useful. Surely, not for production.
  This eventually helped me:    
setTimeout was already mentioned a looong time ago. and the rest of the code has nothing to do with the question.
Java equivalent of JavaScript's String.match()
  What is the Java equivalent of JavaScript's    String.match()       I need to get an array or a list of all matches     Example:       gives         http://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_match.asp    
  Check    Regex tutorial       Your code should look something similar to this:    
  Take a look at the    Pattern    and    Matcher    classes in the    regex    package. Specifically the    Matcher.find    method. That does not return an array, but you can use it in a loop to iterate through all matches.  
    String.matches(String regex)    is a more direct equivalent, but only use it for one-off regexes. If you'll be using it multiple times, stick with    Pattern.compile    as suggested.  
More batch geocoding questions with the Google Maps API v3
  I'm trying to figure out a nice way to limit the rate at which I send geocode requests to the Google Maps API v3 geocoder service. I know that Javascript does not have any nice    wait    or    sleep    because its execution is, for the time being, single-threaded.     Each geocoder request is sent inside of a jQuery    each    function. So, the general code skeleton is:       How can I set a fixed interval to wait in between each call to    geocode   ? If I send each request as fast as Javascript will run, then I quickly start receiving    OVER_QUERY_LIMIT    responses - even if I'm only sending 20 requests. This is expected, and I'm trying to make my client play nicely with Google's service.             An alternate route I'm willing to pursue is to completely abandon Javascript for geocoding, and write it all in Java. With Java it would be    really    easy to sleep in between requests.     However, I couldn't find a way to use Google's geocoding service (specifically, using version 3 of the API) in Java.    GeoGoogle    seems to be more than a year out of date, and uses v2.     Can it be done in Java, and if so, how?  
  Google is actively developing v2 and v3 of the Maps API separately. v3 is a much slimmer version suitable for devices with limited processing power or basic mapping tasks (and doesn't need an API key to work).     In either case, if you're geocoding many things you should probably look at using Google's HTTP geocoding service (   http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/geocoding/index.html   ). This will avoid the rate limiting issue.     And fwiw: Javascript can do basic sleep/wait operations using setInterval() and setTimeout(). Just fire the request and reset the timer to do it again at the end of your callback processing.  
Sorry, but that's really useless to me. The HTTP geocoding service you linked is specific to v2 *and* is subject to the same rate limits and daily limits: http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/geocoding/index.html#StatusCodes. Javascript's setTimeout, in fact, does not suffice for this because it just schedules a function to run X milliseconds in the future - I still can't really control the amount of time in between executions of that function.
setTimeout and setInterval are the basic javascript calls used to make any javascript timer... so in fact it is exactly the answer that you marked as accepted. At any rate, having to rate limit your geocode requests indicates poor app design, usually the result of not saving previous geocode responses or having something better suited to http batch geocoding using a non-google service.
I will be saving previous geocoding responses. However, (a) I have about 10,000 addresses that I need to get initial locations for and (b) some of those addresses change daily. If I have to look up even 20 of those new addresses, I *have* to limit the rate at which I send requests for them. As for an HTTP batch geocoding service - I couldn't find any that were as good as Google's in terms of price (free), hight daily request limit, and accuracy of data - particularly one that has a Javascript or Java API. Can you point me in the direction of one?
the google map api group maintains a page of non-google geocoders: http://groups.google.com/group/google-maps-api/web/resources-non-google-geocoders. without knowing anything about your application I can't say it'd help or not, but remember that javascript geocoder requests are throttled based on the client's IP not your server's, so you may be able to take advantage of that somehow.
  Your best bet to implement some sort of rate-limited submissions would be to use a timer object and a queue.  The timer is scheduled at a fixed rate to run indefinitely (jQuery has some very nice timer implementations) and in the body of that timer, you pop something off the queue and submit it and then finish.  You other code then adds things to that queue as needed.  
That sounds way better than trying to restructure my code so that the requests are all done server-side. Are timers built into jquery, or added in as plugins? Can you recommend a specific one?
The one I've had really good experiences with is a plugin and can be found at http://plugins.jquery.com/project/timers. Good luck!
    http://rizsharif.blogspot.com/2010/10/recursion-settimeout-to-simulate-pause.html    
  Here is a snippet from my script, basically it tries again if it hits google.maps.GeocoderStatus.OVER_QUERY_LIMIT    
How can I pass an anonymous JavaScript object from Java to JavaScript in GWT?
  I'm creating a GWT wrapper round a JavaScript library.  One of the JavaScript functions takes an anonymous object as its argument e.g.:       On the Java side how do I create this type of JavaScript object and pass it to my native implementation?     At the moment, on the Java side I have:       Any pointers appreciated, thanks.  
  if you exactly know what parameters should be used, you can do the following (remove additional new lines after ::)       a small clip from the    GWT documentation   :    
  Refer:    http://code.google.com/eclipse/docs/gwt%5Fjsni.html   It describes how you can pass parameters between JavaScript and Java world. Also check out Google Plugin for Eclipse, if you find yourself working a lot with JSNI  
How to assign unique DOM element ID
  My GWT application creates text areas, each of which must have an ID in order to be useful to a third-party JavaScript library. I know how to assign an ID to a GWT widget; I'm after a good way of generating those unique ID's.  
  I believe this would be what you need for unique identifiers ( using a timestamp and the 'widget-' namespace ).    
  Java has a built-in class for unique ID creation:    http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/api/java/util/UUID.html       Another common way is by using a timestamp, i.e.    System.currentTimeMillis()    
UUID is not implemented by GWT, but I found a guide for how to provide an implementation of your own: http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/doc/1.6/DevGuideOrganizingProjects.html#DevGuideModuleXml I also found an implementation: http://2ality.blogspot.com/2009/01/uuids-for-gwt.html Thanks for the headstart.
No worries! Btw, it looks like Chi's answer might be even more suitable for your purposes.
Yes, I think you're correct: HTMLPanel.createUniqueId seems to be exactly what I'm after.
Be careful using System.currentTimeMillis(), on many systems the granularity of the call is not precise up to the millisecond, and you end up with the same value even when called several milliseconds apart. Anyway, you can never ensure you will not have twice the same ID using that. A global counter you increment is probably much safer if you can afford to share it.
  Javascript:       Java:    
  For GWT, take a look at    HTMLPanel.createUniqueId      
The method in HTMLPanel calls the more generic version: `Document.get().createUniqueId();`, which is probably what you want to use and not create a dependency on the HTMLPanel widget if you don't need it.
Detecting java disabled in explorer
  Is there a way to detect if java is disabled in Explorer?    
  You may want to read this:   http://www.javatester.org/enabled.html    
Nice, but I get the same behavior when java is installed or disabled. And this is what I want to detect.
  OK, here is an official doc:    http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/docs/guide/jws/developersguide/launch.html    
I saw this before, but it's the same thing. I cannot detect if java is not working because of it's not installed of has been disabled. Thanks anyway!
How to escape apostrophe or quotes on a JSP ( used by javascript )
  I have a user form.  If the user types in a string with ' or " as part of it I have no problem.  The form is submitted and saved correctly to the DB.  My problem is when I reload the page (all entries can be modified and are loaded into a list in the jsp before being displayed).  On loading the page I get an error saying:       Any ideas what I need to do to escape this string for displaying it on the frontend.     Here is the code I am using on th frontend to read in the data and store it in a javascript object.  Not fully sure where I need to escape.  The field causing the problem is c.getComName:         UPDATED WITH HTML GENERATED:         Thanks in advance  
What do you mean by messed up? In what way are those characters messed up?
Sorry, further investigation revealed that my problem is not in submitting the form but on retrieving the data again after submission, see updated question
Can you show the generated HTML?
HTML added, I removed the second part of the question regarding jquery, after looking at the HTML this is the only place that has the ' in it so this is where I need it to be escaped.
    What happens if you use ( " ) instead of ( ' )        Might not be de definitive solution but it may work.           EDIT         That's strange.     What about:        If that works, you just have to figure out how to add the \"   
I'll try but I suspect it will then work for ' but not for "
it actually doesn't fix it which is a surprise to me!
:-o I guess you'll need to preprocess the name before delivering it back to the front end. :(
  When you return the HTML from the CommObject class add in the \" instead of the ' and before the name (e.g. Caroline's message)     Like this: return "\"" + comName + "\"";  
I'll try this now, thanks
Still no joy, I get missing ) after argument list '"Caroline's message"', \n.  Just to confirm I need to escape both ' and "
No, just escape the ", and leave out the single quote
  Use the Apache    StringEscapeUtils.escapeJavaScript    function.        
Thanks Kevin, this works perfectly!
Also, if this string is a URL (for example javascript:launchURL( < %=c.getComUrl()%>) you can combine this StringEscapeUtils.escapeJavaScript with URLEncoder.encode to produce a javascript-safe URL.
Just note that this has been changed to `StringEscapeUtils.escapeEcmaScript(String)` in commons lang 3.x+
  I know this is an old, answered question but I wanted to add a bit on how I handle this. I prefer to avoid scriptlets in the middle of my page, and was having to use them (increasingly often) to escape strings when used in JS code. What I wanted was an EL way of escaping the strings. I created a very small custom taglib that I use for just this purpose:       Utilities.java:           mytaglib.tld:           And, in the JSP page:         My apologies if there's a typo in there somewhere... I switched up some names to remove some things.  
Thanks, this is good advice :) I would just add that you don't need the Utilities.java class. You can construct the taglib directly with StringEscapeUtils like so:   org.apache.commons.lang.StringEscapeUtils     java.lang.String escapeJavaScript(java.lang.String)  
  You could use jsp core tags:    
There is a difference between escaping text for Javascript and for HTML/XML. Your answer addresses the latter but this question was asking for the former. Because c:out will produce HTML/XML entities which don't always work in JS code.
You will be able to break the js context: "is extremely easy to switch into an execution context with characters including (but not limited to) semi-colon, equals, space, plus, and many more, so use with caution." from https://www.owasp.org/index.php/XSS_%28Cross_Site_Scripting%29_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet
  You can use JSTL escape function    fn:escapeXml()    to get rid of anomalies caused due to single quotes(`) following example demonstrates the difference.     eg :          RESULT       string (1) : This is abc s first String.     string (2) : This is abc's second String.  
Advantages of using Rhino (mozilla's rhino)
  I've been reading about Rhino as a useful way to implement JavaScript inside my Java code.     After reading for a while, searching in google and here, I couldn't find a real reason for which I would use JavaScript inside Java.     Could you point some real world advantages you find on using Rhino for a regular Java application?  
In addition to what others said, game development is a great example.  Having external scripts is a very common practice in game development for a number of reasons, and if you're writing a game in Java and want to use JavaScript as your scripting language, Rhino is great.
  The benefit of embedding a script language like javascript into your software is that you can offer others a way to write plugins for your software without giving the source code away.     A reason to write the whole app in another language is that you are able to write an app for a company which deploys it in their Java EE environment without having to learn Java.  
To enable others to plug into your app without giving away the source code, all you need is a package with some interfaces.
  Note that since Java 6, the scripting API is in the standard Java library - see the documentation of the package    javax.script   . The API in    javax.script    is an adapted version of Rhino. The scripting API supports not only JavaScript, but many other scripting languages.     See    Java Scripting Programmer's Guide       The front page there mentions some reasons you might want to use scripting:                 Application extension/customization   : You can "externalize" parts of your application - like configuration scripts, business logic/rules and math expressions for financial applications.          "Command line" shells for applications    -for debugging, runtime/deploy time configuration etc. Most applications have a web-based GUI configuaration tool these days. But sysadmins/deployers frequently prefer command line tools. Instead of inventing ad-hoc scripting language for that purpose, a "standard" scripting language can be used.            An example: You can script Oracle Weblogic using Python scripts, for example to configure your application server domain, to start or stop the server and to do other administration tasks.  
What are these other languages?
@WesleiPrudencio see http://stackoverflow.com/questions/11838369/where-can-i-find-a-list-of-available-jsr-223-scripting-languages
    Processing XML with Rhino and E4X is a joy compared to most of the Java XML APIs     You have existing JavaScript that "just works" and you don't want to re-write it.  This can happen if you have some calculation or processing happening on the client side and move it to the server.     All kinds of neat caching and code loading tricks.     Your problem is better solved by a more dynamic language then Java.     List comprehensions ;)    
You're right. I'd use Jython instead of JavaScript for covering most of the points you've given. But your probably a java guy wouldn't.
  We use JS (via Rhino) for a DSL in one of our products.  It isn't a great DSL, but that is a fault of how we use JS, rather than Rhino.  
I'm all for short and sweet, but it's not clear to me what DSL refers to in this context.  Would you care to enlighten me?
DSL = Domain specific language.  Basically, we needed a language that allowed people to express rules.  Javascript is good because it is easy to setup what the user can and cannot do by specifying what is in the global context.  No includes required.
It is possible to set size of images in imagearray of javascript?
  It is possible to set height and width of images in    imagearray    of javascript?       Here images are in different height and width.     I wand to set image height and width in constant size (example:400*400)  
I'm not sure I quite understand your question would you be able to edit it to provide more information about what you are trying to achieve?
  I don't think trying to solve this in javascript is the correct approach.  You don't actually have any images in your array, you have URLs.  If you hope to manipulate the images with javascript then you're going to have to fetch the images and turn them into data you can actually work with.  This is possible, but it'll be a lot of work as there aren't any built in image processing primitives in javascript.     A better approach may be to get the images into the HTML of your page and then rely on the browser itself to do the work for you.  Insert the image element into your page and specify the width and the height and the browser will scale the image for you:       The above assumes you've got a div with id myImageContainer to stick the images in.  It could easily be adapted to sit in a loop where you add each image from your array to the page in turn.  However, if this is all you're doing, you might as well just stick the image in to your HTML rather than messing around with javascript:       The main problem with this approach (either scripting or straight to HTML) is that it doesn't preserve aspect ratio, so your images may looked squashed.  If you want to avoid this then you probably do want to use javascript: load the image into your page, detect its 'natural' height and width, then either use simple arithmetic to scale to something that will fit within both the width and height, or scale so that at least one is and display the image inside a div with a fixed width and height and a style of    overflow: hidden    to crop.  
You can avoid the aspect-ratio problem by only specifying the size of one of the dimensions. E.g. if you have a source image of 800w x600h, set the width to 400 and leave out the height attribute, the browser will scale the height to 300. I recently used this technique to have the browser display proportionally-correct thumbnails from variously-sized input images without knowing the input sizes, and without generating separate thumbnail images.
Good tip, I didn't mention it because it only works with pictures in landscape.  If your source picture is 800wx1200h and you set the width to 400 then the resulting picture will be 600px high, thus exceeding the 400px height requirement.  At this point you're better off doing something more general like I discussed in the last paragraph.  Of course, if you can guarantee all your pictures will be in landscape format, yours is the simpler solution.
Good point; I ignored that he wants to constrain both width AND height. If you have no height constraint (or vice-versa), the technique works for landscape or portrait images. When I was generating thumbnails I didn't care how deep they'd be, so I set width=40, omitted height, and a 400x800 would go to 40x80, and a 800x400 would go to a 40x20. I guess if I have to examine whether the source width or height is greater, and scale that to the constraint, then I may as well calc the second value as well instead of omitting it and making the browser figure it out.
How to best install Rhino on OSX 10.6 Snow Leopard
  I am running OSX 10.6 Snow Leopard, have downloaded rhino1_7R2 and moved it to /usr/local/     I am aware however that (while this would prevent it from being altered by OS updates) this may not be the best location for it and imagine that it may need to be connected to the Java installation.     My intended use for Rhino is to run JavaScript from the Terminal command line, and I'm asking for help as I believe I lack the Java knowledge to quickly figure this out.     I would appreciate any help or links to advice,     thanks Paul  
You should be able to do this using the JDK jrunscript tool (Rhino is packaged with Java 6) http://developer.apple.com/mac/library/documentation/Darwin/Reference/ManPages/man1/jrunscript.1.html
That bundled version of Rhino is not Rhino1_7R2, and it doesn't include E4X, unfortunately.
I installed Rhino by following this article - http://ejohn.org/blog/bringing-the-browser-to-the-server/ - but it was on Leopard, not Snow Leopard. I don't think it should matter, though.
both Alex and Jesper have been helpful, I would Vote them up if I had 15 reputation.
and now that my 'reputation' has increased I have indeed Voted them up
  I have not used Rhino before, but I just quickly grabbed 1.7R2 from Mozilla and tried it out.  It appears to be a standard Java jar executable.  The location of it as compared to Java is irrelevant (as it should be).     All you need to do to run it, in your case, would be something like the following (from Terminal.app):       I noticed that this particular program is actually starts a interactive JS shell, which may not be what you wanted (but it may be), but if you run it with -help, you will see its full usage:    
Thanks, that was what I needed to know about where Rhino should / could be installed.
  Note that since Java 6, the scripting API is built-in in the standard Java library, and you really don't need a third-party library like Mozilla Rhino anymore. (In fact, the scripting API in Java 6 is an adapted version of Mozilla Rhino).     See the    API documentation    for the package    javax.script    and see:    Scripting for the Java Platform   .     The default version of Java on Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard) is Java 6, so you should be able to use the standard scripting API without installing anything special.     Note: I found that    jrunscript    is installed on my Mac, but for some reason it's not in the PATH so it can't find it if I type    jrunscript    in a terminal. In my file system, it's here:       /System/Library/Frameworks/JavaVM.framework/Versions/1.6.0/Commands/jrunscript    
Thanks, I found the same that it's not in PATH although using the full path you give does indeed run jrunscript in the shell.  I will see if adding a symbolic link, or adding it to ~/.profile can make the path shorter.
Did you notice the upvote arrows at the top left of the answers? ;-)
Hi Jesper, good point! I did notice the upvote arrows but I need a reputation of 15 or more to use them...
  As jrunscript has been mentioned in other answers     comments, it's a convenient tool, but it doesn't support full Javascript 1.5.       Javascript 1.5 is fully supported as of Rhino 1.6R6, and Rhino 1.7 supports JavaScript 1.7.     Rhino 1.6Rx is supposed to support E4X, but curiously this simple exemple fails in jrunscript:       And I had troubles making jrunscript work with John Resig's    env.js    (that allows to load jQuery, Prototype, and other libs in Rhino scripts), because 1.6R2 doesn't implements get     set properties (they were added in 1.6R6 IIRC).     More info on Rhino versions here:         https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Rhino/Downloads_archive         So I think Rhino 1.7R2 is better for you, as you already have it. Just use an alias or something to make the command line shorter.  
Thanks for that information! It encourages me to persevere with Rhino. Where would you install Rhino 1.7? In /usr/local/ as I did or somewhere else? You mention using an alias, what two paths would you use it to connect?
Non-Java web application to authenticate against a Java servlet
  We have a    Java EE    web application deployed to    JBoss   . This web application is used for authentication purposes.     Now we would like to have other web applications that are not written in Java to communicate and authenticate against this web application. The reason we want to do this is: Suppose we have a small web application that does a simple task for the user. This web application could be implemented purely with the plain    HTML    stack plus a little bit of JavaScript, hence we would like to not introduce the complexity of Java EE into it.      Is there a good way of doing this both secured and efficiently?       More information:     The web application used for authentication is a huge Java EE program with other functionalities. We'd like to slowly get rid of it, and part of this process involves moving some of its functionalities outside the stack.     At this phase, we are leaving the authentication module as is, and start with other parts of the program (hence why we don't want to bundle these small web applications with the main program and uses Java EE).  
If you have a large, complex JEE app it seems unlikely that you could replace the whole thing with static HTML/JS so what is your end goal? And what do these pages do?
  You can put static HTML and JavaScript code inside a Java EE web application. Why not just put it there since you have the application anyway (and need it for authentication I assume) and then add appropriate mappings to your    web.xml    so you can only access those pages if you're logged in.     It's a little difficult to answer, because I'm not sure exactly what these other pages will be doing, how they will relate to the Java web application and so on.  
  If all you need is authentication, here's a small and lightweight open source library,    http://spnego.sourceforge.net   , that is installed as a servlet filter.     They also have examples on how to use a SOAP client with a protected web service.  
how to pass parameter to a javascript function using struts taglib?
      I have a javascript function    updateHiddenField(value)    that gets a value as parameter and then sets this value as the value of a hidden field.         I have a JavaBean    flight    with parameters    id    and    flightNo   .           Problem:    How can I pass the parameter    id    of JavaBean    flight    to the js function    updateHiddenField(value)    when using      html:link      tag(struts)?       Thanks Umar  
    Assuming your taglib import is      % @taglib prefix="s" uri="/struts-tags" %      
  You don't seem to be gaining anything by using      html:link      over      a      - so that would be the easiest change:         a href="javascript:updateHiddenField(   bean:write name="flight" property="id"/   )"              bean:write name="flight" property="flightNo"/         /a         More generally I would suggest you add event listeners to your DOM objects, rather than mixing markup     functionality.  
Variable scope in the code
  I was going over the tutorials for GWT and was confused by this piece of code.     The code is at    GWT tutorials         The problem part is the anonymous inner class to add event handling to the    removeStockButton   . The class' onClick method accepts an event and then retrieves the index of row-to-be-deleted from the ArrayList    stocks    using the variable    symbol   .     How will    symbol    still be in scope when the user actually calls onClick(), i.e. clicks the remove button? If you doubt the correctness of the code, it's from Google engineers and so is correct (plus, it works, I've used it).     Is this some JavaScript trick or do I need Java referesher courses?  
nothing to do with javascript...
  Note the keyword "final" in the declaration of    symbol   .       (No     Yes, respectively to your final questions.)  
  This is because and only because symbol was declared as final in the enclosing method.     Here's a link to a brief explanation of anonymous classes in Java :    see here   .  
Technically it would be in scope even if it wasn't `final`, although it wouldn't compile. (The practical difference is that a field of the same name in the outer class would be hidden (is that the right term?).)
  The language basically takes care of this in the background with a feature called a Closure.  The closure binds "symbol" to the class.  In order for this to work in Java, the variable must be final (which it is here).   
I find calling this a closure confusing. That's not what closures are in other languages, they're much more than that. I'd keep it at anonymous inner class. But that's just my opinion.
java anonymous inner classes are a poor man's closure =)
  Yes, you need to get a refresher on your Java skills. This type of programming is very common in Java. As said by the others: since symbol is final, you can access it from inner classes.  
Can I execute a AJAX-enabled webservice method on the onbeforeunload event of a browser?
  I am trying to execute a webservice method call from the javascript on the page, just before the user leaves the page. I got the javascript speaking the webservice perfectly. However, when I try to hook the javascript function to the window.onbeforeunload event, nothing happens.       The method on the webservice returns no values. I am unsure what to do with the onsuccess and onfailed callback functions, so I placed empty functions.     Any ideas guys? Has anyone tried to do this before?  
  basically you've got a race condition problem. If the request completes before the page changes then it'll work. Most of the time, though, it will fail.  
I thought as much! I want to record the datetime the user leaves the page, and store it into a database. How do analytics products (e.g. google analytics) figure out how long on a user stayed on a page?
Unless they poll the webservice at very small intervals, but that would be costly...
Honestly, I don't know. A page I know that is using google analytics requested a javascript file and a 1x1 transparent gif. After that, firebug showed no activity with google-analytics.
  You can use SYNCHRONOUS request (SJAX) and it seems to work in all browsers.     If you look at the basic XmlHttpRequest javascript objects there is a parameter to use Asynchronous...just pass false.  
Exposing a function from Java to Rhino
  It's easy to make objects available to Rhino from Java using    ScriptableObject.putProperty   , but is there a way to expose a top-level function? That is, can I make it so scripts in Rhino can call    foo()    and have that call out to Java code?  
  Umm...    yes, you can   . Perhaps I'm not understanding your question correctly (what do you mean by "top-level function"?) but if you've exposed java object to Rhino, you can call its methods.  
Sorry if I wasn't clear. While I can expose an object, which allows me to call foo.bar(), I'd ideally like to just call bar(). So, by 'top-level function' I mean a function that's a property of the Rhino Scope that's currently executing, if that makes more sense.
Oh, I see. You can define a FunctionObject: https://www.mozilla.org/rhino/apidocs/org/mozilla/javascript/FunctionObject.html and associate it with global (or your current) scope via putProperty()
Superb, that looks perfect. Thanks!
Trimming whitespace from HTML content?
  I have a CRUD maintenance screen with a custom rich text editor control (FCKEditor actually) and the program extracts the formatted text as HTML from the control for saving to the database. However, part of our standards is that leading and trailing whitespace needs to be stripped from the content before saving, so I have to remove extraneous    nbsp; and    br    and such from the beginning and end of the HTML string.     I can opt to either do it on the client side (using Javascript) or on the server side (using Java) Is there an easy way to do this, using regular expressions or something? I'm not sure how complex it needs to be, I need to be able to remove stuff like:       yet retain it if there's any kind of meaningful text in between. (Above snippet is from actual HTML data saved by the tester)  
    That should match all paragraphs that don't contain any "meaningful text".     It's probably best to do it on the server-side though.  
shouldn't you consider some entities to be meaningful? i.e.     ?
Not just     ... I'd say most entity references could be classed as "meaningful text" but I think the OP can take care of that. If need be, just remove the middle part of the regex (" & [#\w]{2,6};|")...
Encapsulate menuItem with taglib, jsp, JS?
  How could I encapsulate the authentication logic, the URL and the label of a Menu item when I make use of e.g. a Dojo MenuItem widget?     What I currently have is this:       And what I would like to achieve would be something like:       Is this possible to implement with a custom tag? Would there be other options to use Ajax or JS helpers?  
not sure how I can quote html tags here without having them interpreted by SO
Markdown's markup rules can be found here: http://stackoverflow.com/editing-help
  There's a project called    Struts Menu    that is a combination of a taglib, a config file, and Velocity templates to encapsulate menu display logic and security.  I don't think there's an existing Velocity template for Dojo menus, but it shouldn't be difficult to write one.  
  It most certainly is possible with a custom tag but including other tags in a custom tag can be ornery.    Facelets    is a good alternative to JSP that has actually replaced it in the J2EE spec for J2EE6. It allows you to create custom tags via other components. Check out    this    as it is a good tutorial.  
I want to make a "Web 2.0" application without using JavaScript directly
  I'm a full time Java developer of around 4 years, professionally.  I'm a GWT fanatic.  I love Java.  Here's the problem:  In my free time I often fall victim to the verbosity of my favorite tools for doing "heavy" development.  I also often fall into the trap of obsessively engineering my software.  I'll end up with the most beautiful    unfinished    implementation, ever.     So, here's what I normally work with.       GWT    - I use this for dynamic UI and web layout.  I love the ease of re-use and it has taught me to absolutely hate javascript.  I really can't even bring myself to do much HTML/JS anymore.       Hibernate    - POJO to Database, easy-peasy.  What i really need from this other than the mapping is that it allows me to have an application that works across multiple databases.       Spring    - Mostly security.  I've written my own custom LDAP bits for a project.       XML    - I've used dom4j and other implementations, including xstreamer.  I'd like to use JiBX for XML transport.  The problem with this is that I need XML messages that    conform to a specific standard    rather than being autogenerated.  Object->XML->Object are also common enough that it can be a performance bottleneck with large messages (250KB+).     I tried Lombok for a little while and liked it but had occasional issues with it and then I blew up a partition and lost all that work.  I don't really feel like doing the same thing again (half the fun was in learning how to do it, now that I know... meh).  This taught me why other people want to reduce the explicit code and replace it with an implicit system.     I've been looking into Grails but that runs me into the JavaScript problem (you know, that I don't like it) pretty quickly.  I could use GWT with Grails on the back end but I get back into the problem of getting deep in the weeds with GWT.  It has also occurred to me that there might be a way to have Grails tags in GSP that are made up of GWT widgets.  I'm not really sure how I feel about that.     Another problem I have with Grails is that validation logic    before    form submission is separated from validation constraints    after    submission.  I don't see how they can be unified (yet) to produce "pretty" front-end validation.  I went out of my way to start a    JSR-303 compliant validation project    for GWT to help solve some of this problem for GWT and really liked the results.  It isn't finished but I still find it useful.     So, help me find a better way!     TL;DR - I want to have a Database (and Database-Independent) to GUI solution that allows for dynamic web programming all in one language.  Failing that, as close to one language as possible.     TL;DR is TL;DR - I hate JavaScript now, help.       EDIT:    I know that it is techincally impossible to do "Web 2.0" development without JavaScript.  I'm just trying to not be the guy who has to write it.  (Getting a tool such as GWT to do it for me from a language I do like, for example.)  
I'm not quite sure what's the question here - or are you seeking confirmation that GWT is the best choice? ..because it is - same here, I'm a great fan of GWT, I can't believe that someone would want to write a complex web **application** in JS (jQuery/mootools/whatever included). GWT makes it so much easier to reuse code, apply design patterns, use code metrics, unit testing, etc, etc.
  Just learn JavaScript.       Resistance is Futile     ...and you will be assimilated.     PD: I'm an ex JavaScript enemy. Now it's my favourite language.  
Another ex JavaScript enemy here.  The problem is there is a lot of very bad JS out there, especially in the "beginners" tutorials from people who don't actually know JS.  Not to mention these days you have JS libraries like jQuery that address cross-browser compatability issues for you.
I know JavaScript well enough to do most of the things I can do in GWT without crying about it too much.  The problem I have is that I'm not good at creating reusable elements and writing good, clean JavaScript. I'd rather have a tool (GWT) that does that for me from a language I do feel good about.  I don't want to cut out JavaScript (can't) I just don't want to be the guy using it.
Hire somebody who will. ;)
"Never stop learning; knowledge doubles every fourteen months." Anthony J. D'Angelo. Beside that javascript, while using a framework like jQuery, is easy to learn. Just: comment, comment, comment it.
I really didn't want to mark this as the answer as I'm probably going to figure out how to integrate grails/gwt somehow.  But this seems to be the theme of the thread.
It's been years since I wrote this question and I've since discovered the joys of working with Bootstrap, JQuery, Angular and some other tools that make JavaScript much easier to organize and build projects on.
  Have you heard of    Echo   ?     It doesn't provide the database part of the problem, but it would work well with any database that you can work well with.          Echo is a platform for building   web-based applications that approach   the capabilities of rich clients. The   applications are developed using a   component-oriented and event-driven   API, eliminating the need to deal with   the "page-based" nature of browsers.   To the developer, Echo works just like   a user interface toolkit.           The latest iteration, Echo3, features   the ability to write applications in   either    server-side Java    or client-side   JavaScript. Server-side applications   run in any Java Servlet Container and      do not    require developer knowledge of   HTML, HTTP, or JavaScript.    
Nice link. I have never seen this before and it looks really cool.
  I can understand your dislike of JavaScript and it certainly has its problems but I think your fighting nature at this point.     Web 2.0 is strongly based on JavaScript for a good reason as it provides the ability to perform tasks on the client machine without requiring page loads.     I'm sure there are alternatives but if you want the look and feel of Web 2.0, you will end up doing a lot more work with little reward. JavaScript is the accepted and functional tool for the job.  
  You might want to take a look at some of the AJAX powered JSF libraries. IceFaces and RichFaces are both solid.  
  Not sure if you would like this , but have you heard abour    HaXe    ?  you might not like it but its AIO(all in one) solution( sort of )   
  Been there, done that. I was a GWT developer for 3 years... I started using it in v1.1! GWT is fantastic, and works really well for small applications. But the development comes to a crawl once you it a moderate application size, even if you divide your application in sub-modules.     It is also quite ironic that a UI framework has such limited UI creation tools. :)     Personally I bit the bullet and learned javascript. It isn't as bad as I thought. Especially with    jQuery   . :)     Obviously there is no perfect framework. But just the fact that GWT has been out for 3.5 years now, and it still largerly ignored in the Java world should tell you something. Since you're doing this on your free time, I would recommend learning the most popular framework:    Struts   . You'll see its limitation, and also why it is so popular. Of course, you'll need jQuery for that 2.0 functionalities. :)  
I'd recommend you try Stripes over Struts any day. Once you've worked with Stripes you'll realise that poking your eyes out is more fun than working with Struts. I also disagree that GWT has been ignored, with 2.0 and OOPHM (and now that Google Wave is written in it) it's on the up :)
I've been using GWT for about the same amount of time.  I think I started using it around 1.2 or 1.3 for a project.  I've also used 1.6 and 1.7 for production code.  As I said somewhere else in this page I like it I just don't want to read quite so much. I heartily agree that there needs to be someone who steps up with some real UI creation tools for GWT.
  You can certainly develop an entire Web 2.0 project without coding Javascript using GWT (we have), but at the end of the day you still have to know HTML/CSS     Javascript.     This might sound like a stupid statement, but it's not once you consider that GWT is not a perfect abstraction, nor is it designed to be. It wasn't written in Java so that you didn't have to ever code in Javascript again, instead they did it because Java has better IDE's, is statically typed and makes maintenance a hell of a lot easier.     So yes, by all means go with GWT (and check out the new OOPHM, because it's AWESOME) but don't forget that you'll always need an understanding of the underlying frameworks of the web, if you want to develop for the web.  
I've taken code to production using GWT as well.  I was hoping to cut down on the extreme LOC I had with that method.  It did a lot of really awesome things that would have been a total pain to do in JavaScript but at the end of the day it seemed like it was a lot of reading to do.
  I'd say stick with GWT and just drink more of the Koolaid. It's a completely awesome development model that seems to be lost on those who haven't tried it.     If you want to improve your GWT experience, jump to the bleeding edge (I work off trunk, it's quite stable) and use the other Google originated projects like GIN, gwt-incubator and Guice. Especially watch Ray Ryan's GWT best-practices Google I/O talk:    http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PDuhR18-EdM       As for the "framework" part: forget 'em. Just use normal servlets and let GWT take care of the RPC for you. Servlets are a pain when you have to deal with JSP and you're own AJAX calls, but when they're only implementing asynchronous app logic, it's not that bad at all. Guice Servlet makes it all quite easy. You can still use a JVM hosted language to write your servlets if you want.     GWT has an incredible advantage over other JavaScript frameworks in that the layer of abstraction it provides allows for major future advances without any changes to your code. If the GWT compiler and browser detection scripts can take advantage of new browser features then you benefit from a simple recompile.     The big annoyance I see in your requirements in XML... hopefully that's just for integration with a 3rd party service and your client-server communication can just be GWT-RPC.  
  Take a look at    JRapid   , a rapid development platform for Java developers. It generates very powerful Ajax enabled UI without the need of coding.  
  I don't use javascript or ajax, in medium-large application they create a lot of problem with compatibility, because moving some part of code inside client, create security breaches and problem with different browser.     I use only HTML(5) and CSS2/CSS3, and I have a lot successes.     I use this 2 ways:         using "puzzle-techinque". Write a lot of small and simple template (or tiles) to create the big page. I use only JSTL and Spring tag, with Rich/Prime/Ice-faces I encountered a lot of problem with rendering, page building and flow controller, so I discarded them.         using my custom library to parse HTML pages. I create template with my custom grammar, put inside the parser and write on output stream. This is the best way.         If you say me your preferred language and context, I can help you to perform JS-free.  
JSP, JavaScript, and Java Objects
  I'm new to JSPs so bare with me. I have a JSP where I'm using a javascript framework to build a chart using the Google Visualization API.     My servlet is returning a sales hashmap object with year as the key and integer (sales number) as the value.     My javascript uses the sales object to add data to the Google chart API which builds my chart. code:         The sales object in my js gets the hashmap but it's a long string. Do I have to parse it in my javascript or is there a way it will automatically put the hashmap object properly into the javascript sales object?  
  Java and Javascript are completely different languages. Javascript doesn't know what do do with a Java HashMap object (actually in your example you'll get the output of HashMap.toString()). You'll have to serialize it into some form that Javascript will understand, eg. JSON.  
Its better to return a JSON string instead of Map, in the first place. I like it that way. Doing it in JavaScript is fine too. +1
  All this piece of code       does is print the value of    session.getAttribute("sales")    to the HTML output. Without any logic on your part as to how to format the output, Java will merely call    .toString()    on that Object - which the default implementation (unless you override it) usually results in an output that looks like    classname@1234abc12   .      So the short answer is that yes you will need to put in some logic on the Java side as far as how you would like your object / data structure to be output into the HTML document.  
  Try using    JSON    which will allow you to describe your Java object in json ( java script object notation )  That way you can load the described object directly into javascript.   
Yes, I prefer that too. Its better to return a JSON string instead of Map, in the first place. +1
  you wont need to use an external json library (but you could!) - you can print out the json directly into a javascript variable like:    
Its better to return a JSON string instead of Map, in the first place. I like it that way. This is fine too. +1
the problem with returning a JSON string is that you are tying the presentation of data with the computation of the data in the controller. Returning a map has advantages in that the next layer can transform it to something more suitable for the client (assuming a map is a common data structure that can be used to communicate between the comtroller layer and the view layer).
Rhino Javascript: How to convert Object to a Javascript primitive? 
  I am utilizing the javax.scripting with Rhino  in this project.      I have a Java method that returns a Java Object (Double, Long,  Integer, etc).  I want to call that method from javascript and  reference the result as a Javascript primitive type.  However,  javacript recognizes the return type as an Object.      How do I force it to convert to a javascript primitive?      This question is very similar to    http://groups.google.com/group/mozilla.dev.tech.js-engine.rhino/browse%5Fthread/thread/2f3d43bb49d5288a/dde79e1aa72e1301       The problem with that is how do I get a reference to the context and  the WrapFactory?      Sample Code:        Output:  Result: 15   
  Try the following               Alternatively, you could modify the javascript function to explicitly cast the value to a number:    
That gives me a NullPointerException.   Context.getCurrentContext() is null
Edited to provide correct implementation
No effect.  Still get:  Result: 15
Double check, that code gives me 6.0
Sorry, my previous response was before you update with the "alternatively" part. Hmm... the alternative works!  It's less than ideal.. but it works. I'm going to leave this question open a couple more days in case there is a more formal way of doing this that's not so work-around
Ya, it looks like it's being passed in as a string.  Try casting as @Kevin suggested or with `engine.eval("function test(data) { return (+data.getD('value1')) + 5;};");`
  Use the following as the output in your JavaScript code :    
  I developed this application where you enter a set of mathematical formulas that will be evaluated by the JavaScript engine built into Java 6, which I believe is a port of rhino. The idea was that we would have a set of maps and these maps would contain variables, such as:       I used that approach as some of the expressions for the formulas came from variables that were under my control and that could be invalid JS identifiers. My first approach was to declare a map and add it to the JS engine, but it failed in the same way that it's failing with you - it was interpreting it as a string, and not as a number.     The solution was to parse the formula, figure out what variables are being used by it, and then declare the object inside the JS engine.     Something like this:       And then   MAP["VALUE 1"] + MAP["VALUE 2"]    will return    3   , and not    12   .     There may be a better solution around, but once you go around the initial coding/ parsing, the above will always work. In our case there's a phase where we execute the "declarative" statements, and another phase where we execute the formulas. The JS engine is REALLY fast, so it's not a problem for us.  
How is server-side javascript used/implemented?
  I'm aware of server-side javascript for a long time now, but I don't have a clue about how it works. Could someone point me in the right direction?     I'm interested in how to use server-side javascript + Java Servlet technology        EDIT         Great! I have seen those technologies before, but for some reason I didn't associate them with "server-side" javascript ( doh! )      Complementary question: if I want to use a javascript library to create content ( ExtJs for instance ), am I able to have a "document" to modify in the server-side as I do in the client?       ( I guess I'll find out in my first attempts )   
I think a better question is why would you want to use it?
@Elizabeth: Thanks for the comment. Here's the short story: I need to serve HTML generated by a JavaScript library as `application/vnd.ms-excel` I've tried from the client side, but it doesn't work ( because I can only use `text/html` )  The complete story is here http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1479020/save-the-document-generated-by-javascript
  ASP and ASP.NET supports server-side JavaScript. For ASP, all you do is declare:       At the very top of the ASP file and you're coding in JavaScript. ASP.NET is basically the same except that you gain access to the .NET framework.     Can't help on the Java servlet front, no experience with it.  
  Mozilla's    Rhino    JavaScript engine is pretty easy to embed; it allows subclassing of Java classes and implementing interfaces, as well as just doing some quick n' dirty JavaScript object trickery.  I've been working on embedding it into    GeoServer    in my off moments for a couple of months now.  You can take a look at both the    Java    code that embeds Rhino and a few    JavaScript examples    in our SVN repository.  Rhino also has a pretty nice    guide    to getting started.  
  "Helma is a server-side Javascript environment and web application framework for fast and efficient scripting and serving of your websites and Internet applications." -    http://helma.org/    
  Running javascript server side requires a javascript engine that can be embedded. Most of these "embeddable" engines provide an API that lets you interface between the executing javascript code and your own objects/methods. For example, you might have javascript code hooked up to allow the execution of functions written in Java or C#, or you might augment the symbol table of a script to include access to non-javascript objects in your system.     I would take a look at some of these engines, I'm guessing Rhino may be the best fit for you as its written in Java. Their tutorials outline embedding Rhino in a Java environment.       A Rhino embedding tutorial:    http://www.mozilla.org/rhino/tutorial.html       V8 is Google's engine. V8 is not currently threadsafe, so it probably won't suit your needs in a server environment.    http://code.google.com/p/v8/         SpiderMonkey is the engine powering Firefox's javascript execution. It's straight C.    http://www.mozilla.org/js/spidermonkey/           Edit    in response to your second question.     I'm not sure exactly what you mean by content generated by a javascript library. You mention ExtJS however, which would imply HTML content I believe?. It's important to understand the difference between the DOM (which Javascript can read and modify but is not "part" of Javascript per se) and Javascript the language. If you need the idea of a    DOM    server side that's a different story, if you need the Javascript    language    then the above options should help you out.  
  I have extensive experience using server-side Javascript in a Windows environment.  The Windows Scripting Host on all Windows systems provides Javascript as one of the default languages.  You can create a COM object to interface with it from any language that supports COM.  I think    this MSDN page    will get you started if you want to use this approach.     My gut feeling is that you'll be happier if you choose something that doesn't involve COM.  I just wanted to make sure you had all the options in front of you.  
  Check out    http://www.commonjs.org/       -- MV  
  If all you need to do is bless your HTML as Excel, you might be better served sending your HTML to the server and have it served back with a content-disposition header and the appropriate MIME type. Server-side JS doesn't normally implement a browser-like DOM so Ext isn't going to work server-side.      Alternatively you could generate your HTML serverside and skip the roundtrip. For example the    POI    Java library can generate real binary Excel files with multiple sheets and cell functions.     If you really want to use a server-side JS as your app server, consider    Myna   . I mentioned in the this    question    some of its advantages.  
using java scripting API to find and destroy bad/malicious java script code
  I am working on a servlet (runs on tomcat) which receives requests that contains Java Script code, and using the java scripting API framework evaluates/run the code and returns the answer to the user.     Since we are dealing with user generated code, the code can be a good code and it can be bad code. As an example for a bad code can be while(true); which will endlessly loop in the server taking unnecessary resources      my questions     1) how can i discover a bad code?  2) once identified as a bad/malicious code what is the best way to stop the run?     thanks  
how can i stop an endless loop in the java scripting machanism? import javax.script.*; public class EvalScript {     public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {         // create a script engine manager         ScriptEngineManager factory = new ScriptEngineManager();         // create a JavaScript engine         ScriptEngine engine = factory.getEngineByName("JavaScript");         // evaluate JavaScript code from String         engine.eval("while(true);");     } }
  My question to you:    what counts as bad code   ?     If you cannot come up with a formal definition of what counts as bad code, you cannot hope to be able to detect it.  And since this is probably what your question really meant, I'll put forward my answer - there's no way to do it.     Even a seemingly trivial thing such as    whether a program will terminate or not    cannot be determined ahead of time, and I'd expect any definition of bad code would be something that couldn't terminate.     Thus to my mind you have one major option: trust your users (or alternatively don't trust them and don't run anything).     Something that    might    work otherwise is to run the script in a strict sandbox, and terminate it after an appropriate amount of time if it hasn't already finished running.  It very much depends on your circumstances as to what is acceptable.  
  There's already a tool that identifies 'bad' JavaScript,    JSLint   . Obviously the definition of bad code is highly subjective, but JSLint provides a wide range of options, so you should be able to configure it to conform fairly closely to your definition of bad.     You can submit code (and configuration options) to JSLint via the web form linked to above. It should also be possible to submit code (and options) to JSLint programatically, but you should get the author's permission if you plan to do this regularly.  
I took "bad" to mean "malicious"/"mischievous" as opposed to "poorly written".
  You are really jumping down the rabbit hole on this one. There is no way to determine in advance if code is resource intensive or has mailious intent. Even humans have a hard time with that. Having said that there are some things you can do to defend yourself.        Use Rhino instead of Java 6's built-in JS scripting engine as it gives you more options.     Implement a custom context that monitors instruction count. This gives you an opportunity to interrupt scripts that are infinitely looping. See Rhino's    ContextFactory    class     run your scripts in a separate thread so that you can interrupt scripts stuck in in wait states that don't trigger the Context's intruction count     Implement a security manager: see    Overview   ,    API   . This will allow you to restrict the script to just those objects it should be interacting with.       I have implemented 1,2, and 3 in    Myna    and you are welcome to steal    code      
Can GWT be made accessible for users with JavaScript disabled?
  My question concerns Google Web Toolkit (GWT). I'm about to begin development for a project that will reside on an Intranet where some users may have JavaScript disabled. After seeing what GWT has done for Google Wave I've been very interested in learning and applying it to this new project, but if it isn't accessible to those users then I don't think I'll be able to use it. I noticed that the    example applications on the GWT    website don't work at all with JavaScript disabled. So, can GWT be used in a way where content and functionality is still accessible to users with JavaScript disabled? If not, wouldn't this be a massive oversight by Google?     If it's of any use, this project will be using Spring MVC 3.0 with Hibernate and JPA.  
  The whole problem that GWT solves is JavaScript and AJAX programming. If you aren't targeting browsers that have that enabled, then GWT is not for your project. I wouldn't say its an oversight at all. Developing a framework that would leave JavaScript optional would either be very lowest common denominator, or very frustrating, as many features would have to be noted as requiring JavaScript.  
    Q:    Can an entirely javascript based framework work with javascript turned off?       A: No       You could of course detect whether javascript is enabled and build an entirely different site for those users, but why bother? Tell them to turn javascript on if they want to use your site. Let's face it 30% of the internet is broken without javascript, and turning it off is very rare these days. That's 90's thinking that is ;)  
Unfortunately many large corporation and government Intranets feel like they are stuck in the 90's... Almost all of my users still use IE6, and think flash sites are as good as it gets! :p
If your target demographic is IE6 with Javascript turned off then you might as well give up on GWT now, and go back to the wonderful world of server side validation and presentation. Say hi to the past for me, I certainly don't miss it ;)
  GWT is a great tool in cleanup the badness of JS that is for certain, but it can't fix the bad developments and the whole world of other bad JS sites. So the cops and govs turn off them perhaps for a reason. The various flash are good looking and very interactive but I always find them over do the presentation as to the content and functionality. The ones that offers both doesn't seems to be very robust.      If you really like GWT and they are turning off the JS for the world, will they willing to turn it back on if the incoming JS contents are striped out at their internet gateway?  
  GWT: Java->JS "compiler".     So, no.  
Automated Web Application Testing Framework
  What is a good web application testing framework that I can use for a fairly large JavaEE based app?     I am currently using Canoo Webtest, but we are running into issues with jQuery. I have tried upgrading the htmlunit to the current version, but that causes even more strange errors to occur.     I am looking to see what other automated web testing frameworks there are out there.     --Thanks  
  Have you tried selenium? You can write tests either with their firefox capture plugin or with Selenium RC what allows you to run the tests like in java/C# and run them in problems like nuint(and I think junit).  
  I have had great success working with    Selenium   .  Works well within IE/Firefox/etc.  Tests can be written through a plugin recorder, or in several languages.  Personally my tests have been written in Java/JUnit but support is there for others as well.  
  I would recommend    WebDriver   , It's in the selenium namespace and I believe it will be rolled into selenium.       I find the API more pleasant and the setup does not require a proxy server which gets painful to configure correctly when dealing with multiple sites and https.  
Definitely WebDriver.  There are several things that Selenium can't cope with, such as navigation that blows away the Selenium iframe or HTML generated by client-side XSLT, all of which WebDriver copes with without problems.
  Has other pointed out,    Selenium    and    WebDriver    are good candidates, especially for developers.     Actually, I've often used    StoryTest IQ    (STIQ), a mashup of Selenium and Fitnesse.        iMacros    is another good option (I appreciate how easy it is to share macros with your colleagues).   
accessing javascript from inside java
  I know that there are lots of examples out there on this, but they all feel a little dated (even the sun docs) so I'm asking here to make sure what I'm doing is up to date. How would I go about talking to javascript from inside a java applet? Something simple like how to call alert() is all I'm looking for. Bonus points for a way to check if the browser has javascript enabled (this applet may be used in a school setting where having javascript turned off is a real possibility). All help is greatly appreciated, thanks in advance...     Code:       and my Table class:       Changing my javac command to:         ignores my "Table" class and I get errors where I mention that. Any ideas?  
to doing something up to date you should not create an applet
Can you elaborate? The request was for an applet, so I'm not going to change that. If I had it my way, I'd have done the whole thing w/javascript, but that's not what they asked for...
Alright! Fixed the problem of finding netscape class but now javac can't find my classes that I wrote outside of the main class file...
Hmm although I provided full working example you accepted the incomplete answer?
  Look at    this article   . If you try calling JS from applet on this page it definitely works, because there are js exception after update action from applet :)       import netscape.javascript.JSObject              public void init()     {         jso = JSObject.getWindow(this);     }           EDIT:   For the classpath problem you need to add    plugin.jar    to your classpath which is located in %JAVA_HOME%\jre\lib\plugin.jar        EDIT2:       I think that your problem is that a class    Table    isn't compiled too:     try    javac -classpath /usr/lib/Java6u1/jre/lib/plugin.jar TeamProject.java Table.java    or use wildcards like    *.java   .     Maybe you should consider use IDE like    Eclipse    or    Netbeans    to compile and run project instead of struggling with command line tools.  
using  javac -classpath %JAVA_HOME%\jre\lib\plugin.jar  TeamProject.java doesn't fix anything, neither does javac -classpath /usr/lib/Java6u1/jre/lib.plugin.jar TeamProject.java
Alright! Fixed the problem of finding netscape class but now javac can't find my classes that I wrote outside of the main class file...
Well so you have problem with java instalation. Antother aspect is that this code won't compile. There are no class `Table`. Why you import awt package and swing packages? Where this example come from?
added all my code
  As requested a sample which calls alert on the page it is embedded in (tested in Opera 10.01, FF 3.5.4, IE6).     Note the    MAYSCRIPT    in the applet tag, this    MUST    be present to enable java-javascript communication. As per default access to    JSObject    is disabled due to security reasons.     HTML:       Java (compile with    javac -cp .;[pathtojre]/jre/lib/plugin.jar HelloWWW.java   )       Also check    Java-to-Javascript Communication    and    Mozilla Dev: JSObject    for further info.  
How can I open a webpage within a Java app and run my own javascript code 
  I would like to open a webpage and run a javascript code from within a java app. For example I would like to open the page    www.mytestpage.com    and run the following javascript code:       This works in a browser...how can I do it programatically within a java app?     Thanks!  
  There's    Rhino JS engine    written in Java that you can run on app server such as Tomcat and feed JS to, however - it's not clear what are you trying to do with this?     There's also    Envjs simulated browser environment    which is based on Rhino but complete enough to run jQuery and/or Prototype  
  You can use    Rhino    to execute JavaScript but you won't have a DOM available - i.e.     document.getElementById()    would work.     You can use    HTML Unit    (headless) or    WebDriver/Selenium    (Driving a browser) to execute JavaScript in an environment that has a DOM available.    
  I'm not sure what you are looking for but I assume that you want to write automated POST request. This can be done in with    Http Client library   . Only you have to set appropriate request (POST or GET) parameters.     Look at    examples    - with this library you can do basic authentication or post files too.  
  Your question is a bit ambiguous, as we don't know the position of the Java program.     If that's a Java applet inside your page, you should look at Java   ->JavaScript interaction, it works well.     If you need a separate Java program to control a browser, like sending a bookmarklet in the address bar (as one of your tags suggests), it is a bit harder (depends on target browser), perhaps look at the Robot class.  
  DWR (and other frameworks) now support "reverse ajax."  The general idea is that you use one of three methods to communicate back to the client:       Comet (long-lived https session)     Polling     opportunistic / piggy-back (i.e. next time a request comes from the client, append your js call)       Regardless of method (which is typically a configuration-time decision and not a coding issue), you will have full access to any/all js calls you want to make.     Check out    the reference page from DWR    to get a pretty good explanation.  
Escape char problem while generating JavaScript page through Java code?
  I am generating    JavaScript    pages through    Java    code like:       And so on.     The problem is when searcheng.html is created it contains       which creates a problem in finding index of '\'. How should I write this problem so that it will contain double "\"?     Similarly how should I write a statement        so that it will create statement in JavaScript as        and the link will go to page whose address is stored in    str   ?  
    should do the trick. Double for Java, double again for JavaScript...  
thank u........
similarly  how should i write a statement  out.write(" document.write('     '+str.slice(beg+1,end)+'     ');"); so that it will create statement in javascript document.write("     "+str.slice(beg+1,end)+"     ");  and the link will go to page whose address is stored in str
out.write(" document.write(\"    '+str.slice(beg+1,end)+'    \");");
  In Java string literals the backslash character has a special meaning as a escape character. If you want to represent the backslash character itself you will need to escape it with itself.     That's why the Java String literal    "\\"    represents a String with one letter, that letter being a backslash.     If you want to represent a String with two backslashes you will need to escape both in your literal:    "\\\\"   .  
  Try this:       The point is that '\' is the escape character in Java, so to have 1, you must write 2. To have 2, you must write 4.  
   tag problem while generating javascript through java code
  How should I write a statement in Java to produce JavaScript in a page       so that it will create statement in JavaScript        and the link will go to page whose address is stored in str      curently it is taking href value as str and not the value stored in str i.e. it is searching for page str  
I believe there shouldn't be any space between ` < ` and `a`. It just should be ` < a href=...`
ya that i know...but the problem is if i write  <a in above text box then it doesn't show that full tag.... in program i have written it as  < a href......
  You're not closing the      a      tag!    
I have closed it........
Only now you've added the code formatting
 
Thank u so much ........It is working ............
    Ouch, you've got four levels of string encoding here? ?no wonder it's confusing you. You've got a text string inside an HTML text node inside a JavaScript string literal inside an HTML      script      block inside a Java string literal.     It's really best to avoid doing stuff like this because it's so easy to get wrong. You're missing    +    to join str to the string inside the attribute value; if    str    contains a         or         you've got a problem due to the embedding in HTML (potentially causing cross-site scripting security holes); if    str    contains a space or quotes you've got a problem due to the embedding in an attribute value; the      /    sequence is invalid HTML inside a      script      block...     Whilst you can fix this by hacking up your own string escape functions, I'd say you're better off using functions that don't involve bodging strings together:       Where    foo    is the element where you want the link to appear.  
Dynamic Pie Charts
  I am searching for a free charting library, either in Java, JS, or Flash, that allows for drill-down type interaction. An example of this sort of behavior can be found in the trends section on mint.com. JFreeChart seems like the generally recommended choice for charting purposes, but from a little browsing of their API there doesn't seem to be any obvious way to detect mouse clicks on a particular slice and change the chart in response.      Any advice on how to handle this sort of behavior using JFreeChart, or if this is not possible any recommendations for other libraries that do support this behavior?  
  That depends on where you intend to use the chart.     For Swing-based application, chart drawn within    ChartPanel    can very much handle    mouse events    and you can update it to your heart's content.     For a web page where chart is being rendered as image, you can generate a    client side image map    to accompany the chart and, using AJAX, re-generate and replace the image as needed.     However, the easier option is perhaps to use    Flot    for dynamic charting. Take a look at their    interactive examples    and decide whether that suits your needs.       Edit    Oops, I didn't notice that you were asking about pie charts specifically. What kind of "drill-down" can you do on pie chart, though?  
Thanks for the link to ChartPanel and ChartMouseEvent, those may be just what I'm looking for.
Confirmed working as needed, thanks!
  why not use Google Visualisation API ?           It is free.         Served fast from Google CDN so it does not take any of your  bandwidth.         For an example may you take a look at    http://geognos.appspot.com/geo/en/cc/gr.html#Economy    
Using LiveConnect, calling a function doesn't pass the strings properly
  I've got a little problem with calling javascript functions via liveconnect on java. It's not calling the function with the proper items, as the Safari console just classes the objects as "RuntimeObject" but in javascript i use:       arguments action and data are not being forwarded as proper strings, even though they are referenced as Java Strings. Is there something obvious and silly I'm missing out here?     kenny  
  I have fixed this buy in the javascript adding:       and it casts the objects to strings, so it now works :)  
Passing Table values to action class
  In one of my web pages I have a HTML table. This table will have 0 or more rows and each row has 3 columns.     It looks like this:       I want to transfer the values of the columns (content of td's) to Action class.     Is there a way to       get the number of rows in a table     transfer the values using javascript and how will I get them in my action class       Struts 2 btw.     Thanks  
Struts 1 or 2? Value of columns - what do you mean: html values inside td tags or do you have input fields?
i am using struts 2 and i mean html values inside td tag.... i am not using input fields
  One of possible solutions, I guess, that you have this rows in an iterator...     So the JSP would look like that:       JS file:       Action class:       I did not test this, so maybe there could be mistakes, but the main idea is shown. Of course, you will get in    htmlValues    in action class in html form, but there are a lot of html parses out there.  
building java script debugger for rhino
  i am using tomcat server and i have added a    rhino    engine to able some scripting abilities on my users. the second phase is to provide some debug environment.     i know rhino has a debug API but i could not find any documentation/code samples about how to work with it, and build a debugger around it     any one knows?   
  Check this thread       Getting Rhino debugger working in servlets    which uses    Rhino debugger   .     And be sure to read the whole thread       Rhino debugger against embedded engine       Some guy from the above thread managed (based on the first link I provided) to    attach a debugger to a embedded rhino instance         Some other guy even made a little project on sourcefore (didn't test it)       debug rhino    you only need the debug and the debug-rhino folders as the rest is some other stuff  
thanks :-),  lately i have been thinking maybe i am searching information on the web in a wrong way,  so forgive my silly question but  how did you got to all these links?? thanks:-)
I used google. started out with "rhino tomcat debug" which yields the first link on position 4 for me. Then "rhino debugger" yields the second link on page 2 position 3b. And also reyields link 1 on page 2 position 1.
  I wrote code in    Apache CXF    to launch the Rhino debugger programatically. You might find it a useful example.  
  I recommend leveraging the one provided as part of JSDT, I've got embedded in a servlet environment and it took ~1 day to get going (working out how to make the rhino server match the source with the source in the eclipse workspace so they would debug properly).   http://wiki.eclipse.org/JSDT/Debug/Rhino/Embedding_Rhino_Debugger    
Selenium: Dynamic buttons and classes?
  So, I was trying out a test case on a website and Selenium registers the events perfectly. Now, if I have to search for a particular class and get the innerHTML of that class, how would I do it assuming that I am using Java as the driving language?     Just to be more clear. I have a class like this:              h1 class="classname"   .....   /h1           I want to get the entire text between those tags.     And finally, if the ids of the buttons on the page are dynamically generated, how would I test the clicking action on them? These button, I presume are using ajax. When I click on the button, Selenium generates this:       and the actual HTML of the button is this:       Is it even possible to click on the button?  
  You could use the    getHtmlSource    command to get the entire HTML source, and then use something else to parse the HTML in Java and extract the contents of the target element.     You can locate elements without using an ID, for example if this is the only such button on the page you could locate it:     Using CSS locators:       Using XPath locators:    
Thanks for the info... It keep complaining that it is not able to find an element with that name. One thing though is that the class name has a space in it which I am thinking is the problem. The name is like this: class="ForwardButton Button". Any suggestions on that regard?
Ok never mind... It works with the xpath expression... Thanks a million!
Just one more question: Is there any way I can actually get the innerHTML of a particular element or do I have to get the entire html and then parse it?
You're welcome! :)
I don't believe Selenium can get the innerHTML itself, but you might be able to do something with the `getEval` command...
Thank You again! :) I'll use that to get the job done...
How to assign a JavaScript variable to Java
  I'm trying to assign a js variable to java's request or session and want to access it from the server side. I dont want the js variable to be passed on in the URL. Help me, I'm seeking for a solution.     Thanks in advance  
What web framework are you using?
did not understand much. But is DWR a solution?
Please use JavaScript (usually more precisely ECMAScript, or even Javascript) but not "Java script" as this last one makes it seem like that are somehow related even more than it needs to. The real issue is the question is *phrased absolutely horridly*, sorry :(
  JavaScript only runs on the browser, it has no connection to the database except for ajax type calls.     But, you can add data to the post request for example from javascript, and that would get to the servlet, which is probably your best solution.     But, this really depends on which javascript library you are using, though, for more details.  
Actually you can run JS on the server too. Check out the Rhino library: http://www.mozilla.org/rhino/.
True, but if it is running in the browser they still can't just work together without going through a URL, as far as I know.
  I'm not sure if I understood your question. But if You want asynchronously manipulate "objects in browser" from server it is not possible directly.      There are workarounds, search for reverse ajax.  
  It sounds like you need to review the difference between GET and POST variable submission.  GET will put it in the address (exmple.com/index.html?var=6) and POST will not.  After that you'll have to look at your js library to determine how to direct what the variable hooks up to.  
  The typical most simple way is to use hidden input fields and have your JavaScript fill those input fields with the values you need. When your form gets submitted the hidden input fields will be accessibel in your Java  
But how will I access it in Java, will it be automatically stored in the session?
The hidden input field is only hidden in your html, once the request goes to your weberver you can treat and retrieve it like any other parameter in a form, aka you retriever it from your request
Developing Palm WebOS Mojo applicaitons with Google Web Toolkit GWT
  Has anyone successfully developed a "native" Palm WebOS app using GWT? How do you setup your development environment and how did you interface with the mojo framework?     I was thinking one setup might be to create 2 projects: a GWT     a Palm OS project. Setup your build to copy the results from you GWT compile into the Palm OS project. Probably want to target your GWT builds at Safari.     I guess you would want to generate Java wrappers for the Mojo framework.     Thanks  
  Please understand, I don't mean to offend you, but ... at first glance, this sounds like a really bad idea to me.  GWT sacrifices some things to be able to do the cool stuff it does, but some of those things it sacrifices (eg. efficiency) seem very likely to be problems on WebOS.  Not to mention that GWT is designed for "normal" (web browser) JS, and WebOS JS has some significant differences (in terms of the core types available and such).     Not saying it's impossible or anything, but just ... there's probably a reason you've had this question up for a week and haven't even gotten a single response.  
If you watch videos by Google about GWT they go on and on about how using GWT optimizes the javascript to make it so much faster than hand coded JS. I'm not going to argue with you if you have better information on the subject of performance because that is very important. Yes, GWT probably has a lot of incompatible APIs but the thing doesn't need to be 100% Java. The main point is to get basic Java to JavaScript conversion to get the benefits of a strongly typed language and be able to code in Java which is my strongest language. We both agree it's not impossible :) Good!
With all due to respect to Google (and they are due a great deal of respect; GMail's contribution to the AJAX "revolution" alone was huge), there is a significant body of evidence to suggest they are Java programmers first and JavaScript programmers second (the very existence of GWT itself suggests as much).  I suggest reading this article to get a sense of what I'm talking about: http://www.sitepoint.com/blogs/2009/11/12/google-closure-how-not-to-write-javascript/. Like you said, neither of us think what you're doing is necessarily impossible, but I still maintain that it's likely a bad idea.
As it turns out, I happen to know someone who works at Palm.  This is all unofficial of course (he's just a random coder, not a PR guy or anything), but here's a few quotes from when I showed him your question (just more food for thought for ya): "the gwt thing seems like a bad idea...so much more work for something so simple", "I don't know what gwt is optimized for as well ... technically we're using v8 ... but there might be some idiosyncracies if it's not tailored to webkit", "it's best to just go with the recommended aptana plugins and the like".
Thanks for these comments. I think it's in Palm's interests to have WebOS development accessible to a larger cohort of developers (with hardly any effort). Maybe it's not in the interest JavaScript developers to taint their pure JavaScript WebOS world :)  You can watch these videos if you want to hear what they say about optimizations http://code.google.com/events/io/2009/sessions.html#gwt Basically from what I gather the optimizations aren't necessarily browser specific things. More like inlining as much code as possible and shrinking/obfuscating the code and "interning" strings etc.
Regarding the sitepoint article you linked to. I don't think it is relevant since it has nothing to do with GWT as far as I can tell. Please correct me if I'm wrong.
The SitePoint link was just meant to challenge the "just trust Google" mentality you seem to have ;-)  Google is not the master of all things JavaScript ... far from it.  So just because *they* think GWT "optimizes" things, does not mean the larger JS community would necessarily agree.  But look, you can argue as much as you want for why Palm should lather Google up with massage oil and give them a good rub-down; I was just trying to show you that the chances of that happening are pretty remote, and unless that does happen your GWT plan is probably going to be a bad one.
Let's review: (Cal)=> Loves[Google/GWT/Java] Hates[JavaScript]. (MachineGhost)=> Master debater: proficient at straw man arguments and finding guilt by association. Knows *someone* who works for Palm which gives his fallacious arguments a solid foundation.  (Using GWT)=> A bad idea since Closure is apparently bad according to some article on sitepoint. Or maybe it's a good idea since Google is the largest search engine on the internet! Which fallacious argument to choose? (The larger JavaScript community)=> Determines what techniques are the most efficient not tests and measurements.
You should talk to your colleague at Palm to see if he can arrange the required Oil rub down :) Then we can close off this question for good! Oh... maybe he can get in touch with my colleague from Google (who thinks GWT+WebOS is a great idea) to get the lubricant fueled cooperation started. I think your on the right track with the whole oil based solution.
Look I tried to answer your question, which is more than anyone else on this site has done.  Just because you don't like the answer doesn't mean you have to regress to middle school.  If you want to keep arguing with yourself here feel free, but I'm done trying to reason with you.
At least the record is straight on your claims. Thank you.
"Just because you don't like the answer doesn't mean you have to regress to middle school."... Nice one, +1 for hypocrisy Mr. Oil Rubdown. I hope you wrote a note to yourself about regressing when you initiated such talk. But, I know you'll remember this thread before you call an idea stupid and back it up with non-sequiturs because I can tell you're a sharp tack. Thanks, it's been fun!
  Actually, there's no reason it shouldn't work, provided you add the requisite PalmSystem.stageReady(); code into your app's index.html file.  ie:       If you've packaged the application properly, you can actually write an app in raw JS and HTML, without ever using the Mojo or enyo frameworks. You just wouldn't be able to access MojoDB, or other similar system resources. It follows that a GWT project should work as well, with the exact same tweak.  
Passing an HTML string to jQuery function
  I'm working on an application which retrieves some HTML code from a record in a database. That strings then gets taken and inserted inside of a specific div. Right now I'm accomplishing this by passing the variable from Java and printing it within the div in the JSP. Now I'm trying to use an external jQuery function to accomplish this task and I'm struggling with how to pass this String to the jQuery function.     I tried something like this:       But it can't seem to interpret the var once it hits the external function (I tried using StringEscapeUtils but that didn't fix the issue).   
What output does `message` have? Technically, this should work.
I recommend using taglibs/EL above scriptlets. E.g. var message = '${message}'; Using scriptlets is discouraged in real world.
  try:    
+1: also see http://balusc.blogspot.com/2009/05/javajspjsf-and-javascript.html for more technical explanation.
This worked, I just needed to use StringEscapeUtils.escapeJavaScript beforehand
If it is purely to escape apostrophes, you could also use ${fn:replace(message, "'", "\\'")} for this. If you also want to escape HTML entities, a       would suffice. But OK, just choose what you like :)
 
  When you run into problems like this, view the source of your page. How does    message    render? My guess might be       Which isn't valid. Enclosing the code in apostrophies will fix this case.       I also usually put global objects like this on the window object so it is easier to find    
Instead of the later you can also use $.message.
I never thought of putting objects on the jQuery object. Interesting, You would just have to make sure jQuery is loaded before your own javascript.
    You not only need to put some quotes around the message text, you also need to escape it suitably for a JavaScript string literal. Otherwise a quote in the message will break it, and potentially open you up to cross-site scripting attacks.       I    think    that's the right number of backslashes, but the interaction of Java String literal backslashes and regex backslashes balloons them out of all sanity. Also control codes like newlines would need escaping if you need to include those.     All in all it might be best to hand the task off to a JSON-encoding library which will output all kinds of JavaScript types properly, not just strings. eg. with json-simple:    
is it possible to build a debugger around the java scripting engine?
  we are using the java 6 scripting engine in our product, and now we are thinking on adding some debugging abilities.      my question is:       is it possible? does the java 6 scripting engine has the same capabilities like rhino as far as debugging.     some documentation about how to start doing it, some code samples any information would be great since i could not find anything on the web.        thanks  
I believe it is possible - I don't have any links, but I'd start with searching for JPDA and Rhino.
another thing that i would like to achieve is to be able to stop the process of the script evaluation after X amount of seconds. like the question above if you have any information about how to do it... ill be grateful..
Are you trying to build a Java debugger or a JavaScript debugger?
we are using java and  i would like to use the java scripting engine to create a debugger for the script it evaluates thanks
  I'd start by looking at how the open source Firebug (www.getfirebug.com) tool is implemented, unless you're completely wedded to the idea of a "pure" sand-boxed Rhino environment (and even then Firebug could probably teach you a few things).  
convert HTML ( having Javascript ) to PDF using java / javascript
  I want to convert HTML (having javascript ) to PDF. How can I do that?     I just want to show what is being shown in web page.  I am displaying a gantt chart that is generated by a javascript library.       Now I want to save that HTML web page in PDF, how to do that?  
Java is completely different from Javascript!
i know , i want solution using java or javascript. both are acceptable for me.
Some questions: Is Java already present in the project? How Javascript does this chart (images, table, ...) and where the data come from? I think your question won't have a direct solution.
  You can use    iText    for Java to convert to PDF.       http://stackoverflow.com/questions/235851/using-itext-to-convert-html-to-pdf       I have used iText a lot and it's very easy and you learn it quick.   
It's not free for commercial
@Odelya well it is if you  can put up with the AGPL :-)
  Using the browser's    Print...       menu item   , you can utilize a    PDF Printer Driver   , like    PDFCreator   . This way any JavaScript included in the page is processed by the browser when the page is rendered.              PDFCreator      is a free tool to create PDF files from nearly any Windows application.                Create PDFs from any program that is able to print         
  Use a browser widget (   like the one from SWT   ) to render the chart as an image, and then use    iText    to create PDF from that.  
  We are also looking for some way to convert html files with complex javascript to pdf. The javasript in our files contains    document.write    and DOM manipulation.     We have tried using a combination of    HtmlUnit    to parse the  files and    Flying Saucer    to render to pdf but the results are not satisfactory enough. It works, but in our case the pdf is not close enough to what the user wants.     If you want to try this out, here is a code snippet to convert a local html file to pdf.    
your code rocks... but as you have mentioned it is not 100% fine... so, did you find something new to enhance the quality of pdf ?
  With    Docmosis    or    JODReports    you could feed your HTML and Javascript to the document render process which could produce PDF or doc or other formats.  The conversion underneath is performed by OpenOffice so results will be dependent on the OpenOffice import filters.  You can try manually by saving your web page to a file, then loading with OpenOffice - if that looks good enough, then these tools will be able to give you the same result as a PDF.  
  Copy and paste this in your site to provide a link which will convert the page to a PDF page.    
doesn't work anymore.
  Try out TableExport, a jQuery plugin.       https://github.com/kayalshri/tableExport.jquery.plugin    
    PhantomJS    has the potential to achieve this with it's capturing functionality which also supports PDF.     In case you want something that is interactable over the command line; I've attempted to build an app for that called    Nota    (still in it's infancy). It allows for JavaScript to render/manipulate and then capture the page as a PDF.  
Writing Ajax code in JAVA
  I want to write ajax code in java i.e. i want use the functionality of ajax without using ajax. I'm looking for some API of JAVA which can do so.     Like we post data of a web page through JAVA program similarly I want to perform operation of ajax through JAVA program.     Please suggest.     
My application is a core java app. I want to submit the form by writing java code. But some of the page content is coming through Ajax. i want to that data. How can i do this with GWT?
"Asynchronous Javascript" is best accomplished with javascript. It's an easy tool to learn functionally, especially with a library like Prototype or jQuery.
    Google Web Toolkit    is Java-only framework for writing AJAX aplications.  
  The quick answer is GWT. However, why would you want to do this? JavaScript is similar to Java. If you know Java, then you can easily write JavaScript code. The advantage of using JavaScript would be that you would be more versatile and would not be locked into a single tool. Using GWT to generate JavaScript (AJAX) code is not natural.   
My application is a core java app. I want to do submit the form by writing java code. But some of the page content is coming through Ajax.  Can I do this GWT?
Yes, GWT is easily up to this task. And I disagree with Ralph about JavaScript being similar to Java. It's a nightmare to code it for someone used to working with classes and objects.
Java is definitely a better language overall, I can't dispute that. However, recently JavaScript has become so widespread because of AJAX and dynamic websites that it would definitely be worth learning. Technologies such as JQuery make it easier and fun to work with. Using GWT ties you down and makes you helpless when you want to do something it does not provide.
-1 for suggesting switching languages.
I think I confused people with my answer. I am not suggesting anyone to switch languages. Exactly the opposite. AJAX is JavaScript. GWT outputs JavaScript. If you are using AJAX, you are using JavaScript. Why not learn to write the JavaScript yourself? How is that switching languages?
Recommending to write all ajax code from scratch is a bad idea. There exist many mature ajax frameworks containing years of work wich level of quality and functionality you will never achieve on your own.
  If your application is running on browser and its a web application, you can go with GWT. If your application is a core java application.. you can simply create a HttpURLConnection and use it.  
Its a core java application. Using HttpURLConnection doesn't works properly if page content is coming through Ajax
My application is a core java app. I want to submit the form by writing java code. But some of the page content is coming through Ajax. How can i do this with GWT?
    Echo    is an alternative to gwt  
  JavaServer Faces (JSF) 2.0 should be able to do partial updates of a page in place, using AJAX under the covers.  It sounds to me as if that is what you need.     I think the easiest way to get a JSF 2.0 capable server running right now, is using the latest version of Glassfish.  
  I suggest you take a lok at    DWR - Easy Ajax for Java   :          DWR is a Java library that enables   Java on the server and JavaScript in a   browser to interact and call each   other as simply as possible.           DWR is Easy Ajax for Java       It enables you to ajax-ify your web application with minimal effort. It is not a complete new web-framework; it focuses solely on ajaxification, allowing you to keep  and use your existing web framework.     If you want to use a "heavier" web framework like JSF, there exist ajax-ready JSF frameworks like    IceFaces    and    RichFaces    with provide ajax out-of-the-box.  
  There are plenty of Java based AJAX frameworks out there.            Apache Struts    [complex AJAX-tags (by integrating DOJO-toolkit)]           Direct Web Remoting    is a framework for calling Java methods directly from Javascript code.           Guise  Framework    - elegant server-side component architecture that doesn't require developers to write HTML or JavaScript           GWT    - Java software development framework that makes writing AJAX applications            JAXCENT    - Just-Java Framework and API for AJAX            IT Mill    - Ajax framework for developing web applications for with Java language at server-side         and even more    JAVA AJAX Frameworks    
  you can submit form to servlet, when servlet response, you using jquery or prototype javascript framwork to get data from server by using Ajax call function. I tried it and it run smoothly!     Good luck!  
  You can use    jQuery    for this. In jQuery you have the great    form    plugin which unobtrusively changes an existing form into an ajaxform.     HTML (in JSP):       JS ((in)directly in JSP):       Java ((in)directly in    doPost()    method of the Servlet behind    myservlet   ):       If you want to get some steps further, you can use    Gson    in Servlet to convert complete Java objects to Javascript object notation (   JSON   ). This way you can access the data the javabean-like way in Javascript.  
how to render javascript in server side
  i m getting a web page content in a string by using java.net.URL and Input Streams.     the problem i m having that my javascript is not rendering and i m getting the as it is response.       suppose this is the code written in HTML file .. now i want when i get the webpage content in string .. the javascript should b rendered..       like this .. how i can do that ????  
i have googled it and found a concept of server side javascript. is this the same thing ? . can Rhino does this thing ? if it can. how  ??
Rhino can execute the JavaScript, but has no notion afaik of HTML or the DOM, so it won't know about the `document` object and that it has a `write()` method.
  The JavaScript won't be executed automagically by java.net.URL. The HTML file with the inline JavaScript is just seen as any other plain text file and isn't parsed in any way. No DOM is built, no JavaScript is executed, no CSS applied. What you need to do to get the JavaScript executed is to parse it with something like    HtmlUnit   .     If you have control of the HTML, though, I'd recommend you to just replace the    document.write()    statements with static HTML. A very rudimentary alternative is of course to just do a search on the regular expression    document\.write\(([^\)]+)\);?    and replace it with the first captured match.  
    https://developer.mozilla.org/En/Core_JavaScript_1.5_Reference/LiveConnect/JSObject       The eval method in the mentioned netscape.javascript.JSObject class might be what you're looking for (though I'm not sure if it takes care of DOM manipulation and if it works across browsers).     Good luck!  
"Eval" is not enough i think. It may render the js between "script" tags but it can't fires the events like "body onload='blabla'" etc.
is it possible to do this on a input type ="file"?
  I need to pass the filename of a file-input to a parent page... is this even possible?     The input type ="file" has a value, but can I use it like this?     I have used the value of the file-input to check the extension of the file, and it works! So I guess there is a value, but can this be done and is it reliable?     If not, how would you have done it?     Thanks  
what do you mean by "parent page" ?
  You can only access the file name (without the full path) with javascript in all the browsers except IE.       will give "file.gif" if the file c:\docs\bah\file.gif was selected  
Perfect answer, thanks man!!!
Indeed just the usual way. I would only add: You can *access* it, but not *edit* it. Keep it in mind.
By the way, what would I do in IE then? is there a way around it?
In IE, you can access the full path ;)
FYI You can get the full path in FF ` < ` v3.
Is it possible to use JSP/JSTL to generate dynamic css/javascript files?
  If so how do you do this?     (jboss/tomact embedded/jdk 1.5)     not embedded js/css but an actual file...  
but i want it to act like a regular javascript or css file (e.g. send headers etc)
can you please answer to this question. Something same like this. [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14243065/jsp-function-tag-to-replace/14245423#comment19786651_14245423][1]   [1]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14243065/jsp-function-tag-to-replace/14245423#comment19786651_14245423
  Sure, JSP can output any necessary text you need be that (X)HTML or CSS or JavaScript code.  I do this regularly for ERP customization, inject a javascript script at the end of every page and via the context in which it loads able to manipulate necessary data fields on the page without touching the underlying app.  
  Sure you can. Only thing you need to do is to set the appropriate content type.        or       Take care with the fact that    some    webbrowsers might be picky on the file extension used in the actual request URL. I have never tried it as I normally would use a    Servlet    for those purposes, but I won't be surprised if especially MSIE won't eat that.  
hmm Servlet eh??
@amvx: that's the next step after learning JSP :)
  What you want to do is assign the *.css servlet mapping to the JSPServlet.     In most containers, you will see a mapping like this (this is from Glassfish, in it's default-web.xml):       Here, it is declaring the JSP servlet, and mapping "*.jsp" to it. So, in this case, the JSP servlet reference name is, simply 'jsp'.     So you would want to add:       When you do that, "suddenly" ALL of your CSS files are, effectively, JSPs, so you can do with them whatever you want.     The detail is I don't know if 'jsp' is the same for ALL containers, so your web.xml MAY NOT be portable.     But that's the gist of what you want to do. If you don't want ALL CSS to be JSPs, you could put the files in their own directory, and map that to the JSP servlet. Then ANYTHING you put in there would be a JSP (css, js, etc.)  
excellent feedback!
second glance this is what I was looking for
  On glassfish 3.1 you may need to add this:       And then       To your web.xml, if not, you may experience  "java.lang.RuntimeException: There is no web component by the name of default here. " Error  
GWT's hosted mode not working
  I've been stumped for a while trying to figure out why my GWT demo app isn't working in hosted mode so I went back and downloaded the    Google Web Toolkit    again, unzipped it and simply went to the samples directory and ran "ant hosted". The hosted browser launches and only shows the static html content but none of the dynamically generated js widgets, etc. However when I click "Compile/Browse" the examples launch correctly in Firefox.  What could be wrong with my setup/environment?  
what does the hosted mode console/logger say? any error msgs?
no error messages were displayed...
What operating system are you on?
Windows XP, JDK 6
  The main difference I can think of is that in the Compile/Browser you are opening the html host page like a regular file, while in the hosted mode (even in a client sample) it has to be provided by the http server via localhost:8080. Check if the server is beeing started.  
When you run in hosted mode, it starts an embedded jetty server. There's shouldn't be a need to run an external http server on localhost:8080. However, you can deploy the gwt app to a war, and then deploy the war to an externally running server (tomcat or jetty or whatever).
  I followed the link you provided to download gwt. Extracted and ran "ant hosted" under samples/Hello, samples/DynaTable, and samples/Showcase and they all worked successfully. I'm also running Windows XP and java 1.6.0_11.     I think that running "ant hosted" starts an embedded Jetty server that listens on port 8888. Hosted Mode Browser makes requests to that embedded server, for example:    http://localhost:8888/Showcase.html   .      Also, when you click "Compile/Browse", it opens your default Browser (in my case it's firefox) and it tries to make a request to the same embedded jetty server that the hosted mode browser uses.     So, if it works in your browser, then the browser is connecting to the embedded jetty server. It's very strange that hosted mode doesn't work properly but you're able to view in a browser.      I believe the difference here is that hosted mode runs pure java (some sort of javascript emulator, I'm not sure I understand 100%), while the browser is running javascript.      So, I suggest troubleshooting the jvm that is started when "ant hosted" is run. Maybe the jvm is running out of memory or something when you load it up in hosted mode browser? Maybe you can pass some jvm args to the ant script to fix the problem?      Sorry I can't be more specific, that's a strange one!  
  @Chris: I suspect this question may have something to do with your earlier    question    if it is on the same computer that you were using. The solution may be to clear your IE cache because it tends to cache the 'script' tag contents and when it got messed up earlier while you were importing other stuff, it may still be sitting around in IE. Found the potential answer at this    link   .   
  I created a new workspace, re-imported everything and used GWT 1.6.x instead (because Ext GWT 2.X, which I need for this project requires GWT 1.6.x). This did the trick... everything works ok now.  
How to change table background depending on database textareas 'height'?
  Is it possible to get the height of a 'text' field from mysql? Or the number of linebreaks would also work!     I have a table which fetches the 'text' field from my mysql database. The background image of the table is sort of a container... I want the background to change to another (taller) background if the text is vertically high!     Possible, if so how?     Thanks     UPDATE: I am not going to use word wrapping...  
  In your query you can count how many instances of '\n' are found. You can do this in javascript or php as well. This wouldn't be totally accurate though if you're word wrapping.       How to do it with php       Alternatively... to grab the height with javascript:    
  Very difficult, as you're never going to be able to predict font size with 100% certainty (Users could have enlarged text in their browser, for instance, or be using a different font).     If you want to make 100% sure, you would need to use Javascript to measure the actual size.     Otherwise, for most cases, as @Chris Klepeis says, counting the line breaks should work.  
How to check which images/css/javascript are used in web app?
  The other day I found this little piece of software - WARI. It stands for Web Application REsource Inspector. Apparently it checks dependencies between css, html, js and images and reports unused and duplicated css styles, javascript functions and images.      Link:    WARI is released!       What do you use? Any alternatives?  
  Conceptually such a tool would be very handy as it is typically a very awkward task to find stray files and safely remove them.     I'm not sure if this is the case... but from the wording of this question it looks like this might be a self-promotion question which isn't an endorsed activity.  If you wanted to follow up to the generic question "what tools are out there to do x,y,     z" with your own answer that would be fine.     For the record, I use 2 tools called CheckWeb and Xenu that will follow all links and report back what was found.     This finds me any 404's, and I then compare the list of referenced files against my directory listing to see what files were not used.  (Its rough, but works)  
  You can try    Google s page speed       With that you can check all relevant things about your website. Which CSS are unused, Google page speed minifies your JS files and so on. Check it out, you will be impressed. :-)  
  If you are a Firefox fan, I happen to use Firebug add-on that serves a jack of all trades web development kit.  I might exaggerate a little bit however I find it very useful.  Here is a quick blurb:  Firebug integrates with Firefox to put a wealth of web development tools at your fingertips while you browse. You can edit, debug, and monitor CSS, HTML, and JavaScript live in any web page     If you want to know more info, you can check out their homepage here:    Firebug    
i think there may be a google speed plugin for firebug too
  As Stat1124 has mentioned Firebug is invaluable.  The net panel is great for this purpose as it shows the time required to load all the assets associated with a page - and if a resource is unavailable it also shows the HTTP response code.     When trying to optimise a site, yslow (   http://developer.yahoo.com/yslow/   ) is a great addition to firebug - as it provides specific implementation tips to achieve a more responsive page load.     There's also a great utility called smush.it (   http://developer.yahoo.com/yslow/smushit/   ) - which has recently been added to the yslow tool-kit - which produces optimisations to reduce image size.  
  If your goal is to speed up your page-loading time, WARI seems like it would certainly help you reduce the data required to load your page.     However, I suggest that you go a step further -- take    Yahoo!'s advice    and    minimize the number of HTTP requests   :                 Combined files    are a way to reduce the number of HTTP requests by combining all scripts into a single script, and similarly combining all CSS into a single stylesheet. Combining files is more challenging when the scripts and stylesheets vary from page to page, but making this part of your release process improves response times.          CSS Sprites    are the preferred method for reducing the number of image requests. Combine your background images into a single image and use the CSS background-image and background-position properties to display the desired image segment.          Inline images    use the    data:    URL scheme to embed the image data in the actual page. This can increase the size of your HTML document. Combining inline images into your (cached) stylesheets is a way to reduce HTTP requests and avoid increasing the size of your pages. Inline images are not yet supported across all major browsers.         
Base 64 encoding, Java or JavaScript?
  i've a particular js function that encrypts some form inputs into base64, but I need to run it in my Java app. So my question is, how can i call that function inside a java class? Otherwise I'll have to translate it but I think will be more complicated. Here's some of js code:       Thanks so much!  
So you have a javascript function that you want to call from Java?  If thats the case, not likely to happen.  What exactly are you trying to do?
I've to get output string from this js in order to login
  You could do that using a    javascript engine written in Java   , but I think it's better to simply translate it into java.  
  Translate the code into Java - it will be quicker. (Or search for an existing example in Java!)  
Indeed I found some examples but not getting the same outputs :(
sscalzadona: could the different outputs be because your js implementation calls escape on the input? Why are you doing that, anyway?
Js code is implemented in an embedded device, I'd love to change that implementation, but I can't!
  I have used    http://iharder.sourceforge.net/current/java/base64/    and it works.  
  Or better use    commons-codec    's    Base64 class       P.S. You do not "encrypt" into Base64 - you "encode"  
sorry, english is not my native language
the native language doesn't matter - these are different terms.
         but I think will be more complicated.         Why would it be more complicated? You can perfectly do that in Java. If your actual problem is already the first line       then it's good to know that the Java equivalent is the    URLEncoder#encode()   . As to the remnant of the coding, it's ultimately straightforward. Just replace    var    by    String    or    char    here and there, align the methods according      java.lang.String      API and you'll be fine.       Edit   : for some downvoting nitpickers out here: I did NOT say that    URLEncoder#encode()    does the Base64 encoding. It just does URL encoding the same way as Javascript's    escape()    function does. That was just the first line of his to-be-translated Javascript code. Please    read    answers, do not    scan    answers.  
working on this, thanks
URLEncode != Base64
it's no nitpicking, it is a totally different thing..
So you insinuates that you thought that Javascript's `escape()` function equals to `Base64` thing? Reread it all dude.
it doesn't, of course.. but never mind.. I removed my downvote, to 'end the war'.. now you can perhaps remove yours from all my recent posts :P
(the point was that it is redundant to write all that code, and messing with URLEncode, while simply base64 was needed)
URLEncode.encode actually works as expected, I'm finishing the translation, worked ok with char and Strings, only have to be catch IndexOutOfBounds Exceptions when accesing charCodeAt(i++), thanks again BalusC!
You're welcome. The `ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException`s can be avoided by checking lengths properly.
Mozilla Rhino: Different ways of adding Java object to scope
  I've got this piece of Java code with embedded Rhino (irrelevant bits omitted):       where    foo    extends    ScriptableObject    and    bar    is just a POJO without a parent.     Is there, in this particular case, any difference between the way    foo    and    bar    are added, or is the result the same?     I tried consulting documentation but I couldn't find any answer. Eventually I just looked up the source code (*rhino1_7R1* version) and my guess is it doesn't really matter in that scenario. Or does it?  
  I think you are correct. I believe I've been on the same code-reading expedition as you and reached the same conclusion. The top-level objects of the scope are the same thing as the properties of the scope.  
Converting a 64-bit long UTC timestamp into Actionscript Date
  I'm using a Java 64-bit long representation of UTC time System.currentTimeInMillis() and sending that to an Actionscript client as a String, and I want to convert to an Actionscript UTC    Date   .      The trouble is Actionscript (and other ECMAScript like Javascript) only use a 64-bit Floating point number representation, so precision is lost when converting a 64-bit long timestamp.     I could create my own Long class and manage the upper and lower bits and convert the date like that (but with all that effort I may as well send down a date formatted string that I can call with Date.parse() ).  
+1 For you seem to have a question and the answer to it :)
If you send the Java 64-bit representation, the closest thing you get is double (http://livedocs.adobe.com/flash/9.0/ActionScriptLangRefV3/flash/utils/ByteArray.html#readDouble()) not long, but as you said, it's not worth the trouble.
  Unless you have really pressing performance reasons, use a String (you're using ActionScript, so you almost certainly don't). It will be more obvious, less bug-prone and easier to debug if you need to look at messages on the wire.  
Testing if Quicktime and Java are installed?
  In Javascript how can I test if the user has the quicktime plugin and java plugins installed?  
  For Java, you can use    navigator.javaEnabled()   . Or you can look here:    http://www.pinlady.net/PluginDetect/JavaDetect.htm       For QuickTime, you can do:       See here:    http://javascript.internet.com/miscellaneous/check-plugins.html    
this doesn't work, plugins are named with version number so your code comes up undefined even when it's installed
  This of course does not work in IE.  The only way to check plugins in IE is using VB script, and it is very strange and messy.  You can only test for specific plugin versions, for example, "quicktime" won't cut it. You have to specify the version, which is not published for versions older than 5, and    I can't find a reference for version 7    
  The above examples haven't got the answer to the QuickTime part of your question, so here's what I'm writing right now even though the question has been closed and is a little old.       For a more comprehensive and foolproof method i.e. without worry of a plug-in being renamed for whatever reason, you can check within the array of MimeTypes for    type="video/quicktime"    which is the ultimate answer of whether the object will be supported (or if you're not using the QT video, whatever else you're using it for instead).     This means creating a loop inside the loop through the plugins instead, but is a more firm verification than just a string match:       I searched around online and found a bunch of great IE fallback scripts    here    (not sure if this paste service code is going to persist so I    gisted it for posterity   ), from which I took the QuickTime one:       I tested some others and they just didn't work - catching the exceptions is important.     If you're doing what I'm doing (QuickTime fallback to a gif animation) you might want to take the attributes of the video to provide to the image (or whatever else you're using). The downside to this is that you have to couple it to an onscroll as well as onload (or use Jquery) as the browser is liable to try and find the element before the DOM has loaded no matter how you try and avoid it.     If anyone else reading this is looking for a similar answer, the code to do so is       Oddly, you can have multiple versions of QuickTime installed, my Chrome browser on Windows has 7 copies... Luckily I have a Chromebook which doesn't have QT plug-in either installed or available, so I'm checking and seeing what works to distinguish it, this is the best I've come up with.     I never understood why testing was so important until looking at everyone's awful code on this online, incredible. I know no one cares about IE but basic things like    ||    instead of           are just bad to leave lying around for other developers to reuse.     I've checked this on Windows, Linux and Android (IE and Chrome). The    onscroll    gives a bit of a jump but without Jquery or some other framework it's unavoidable I guess (and beats "plug-in not supported" !  
Page redirect / refresh using ExtJS
  My Web application makes use of Ext JS     Java web technology. Due to the size and complexity of the application, I need to   do a complete refresh of the page (load a different page) when user select some menu from the menu bar. What is the best what to redirect to the required page?       For example, In my main menu, I have two menu Stock     Location. These two menu will take  the user to different JSP files (stockmgt.jsp     locmgt.jsp) with new layouts,menu items etc.     One possibility is to use location.href in the button or menu handler. But if I do this, will I retain the session variables, and other parameters?      What are the best practices in doing these kind of redirect or page refresh?     Thanks in advance for the ideas, comment and suggestions.  
  location.href will do, unless otherwise if they are on different domain.  
  Add this to your clickable element:     onclick = "location.href='anotherpage.jsp'"     For example:       img src="blablabla.png" onclick="location.href='anotherpage.jsp'" >  
  These three methods will do the job (Source-    MediaCollege.com   ):       If you're just looking for code to stick directly in a script, try:    
Concurrency Issue plotting google maps GeoCoder request on Google Maps Widget
  My program has essentially 3 steps: 1) Query Geocoder object for some Coordinates and store them in a Collection 2) Send the results to my main module for plotting on a map 3) Plot them on a google map widget     I have created a Requestor class for the purpose of handling the Geocoding -- this class has a getResults() function that returns an ArrayList of coordinates to my main module to be plotted on the map.   However, when I try to do all 3 steps within the confines of my onModuleLoad() method, I run into a concurrency problem and pull null results from the result set.  I have gotten this working with a set of 3 buttons (request, pull results, and plot) but would like to have them fired automatically when the module loads.   I suspect this has something to do with firing Events and having Handlers in the proper places; if that is the case please provide a concrete example as I have tried to find a good tutorial on EventHandlers with some difficulty.  
I've fixed the problem using a Timer and a 5000 ms schedule...is there a better way to do this?
         I've fixed the problem using a Timer and a 5000 ms schedule.         I don't do GWT, so I can't go in depth, but after all it look like that you're (or it's) using separate threads to do the processing. If this is true, then you    basically    need to (let it)    join    the thread(s) before doing something with their final result(s).  
  It sounds that the Requestor class is called asynchronously. In that case you can use    EventBus    (implemented using    HandlerManager    - GWT 1.6 or later) to send and subscribe to events within GWT. Thus, upon getting result from geocoding service you can send an event with the results. The module expecting results subscribes to this event with EventBus.      You may want to check out    gwt-presenter    and    gwt-dispatch    applications for implementation and examples.  
Event driven with Java and Javascript?
  I am trying to perform some computations on a server. For this, the client initially inputs some data which I am capturing through Javascript. Now, I would perhaps make a XMLHttpRequest to a server to send this data. Let's say the computation takes an hour and the client leaves the system or switches off the system.      In practice, I would use perhaps polling from the client side to determine if the result is available. But is there some way I could implement this in the form of a call back, for instance, the next time the client logs in, I would just contact the client side Javascript to pass the result... Any suggestions? I am thinking all this requires some kind of a webserver sitting on the client side but I was wondering if there's a better approach to do this.  
  Your best bet is to just poll when the user gets to the web page.     What I did in something similar was to gradually change my polling time, so I would start with several seconds, then gradually increase the interval. In your case, just poll after 15 minutes, then increase every 5 minutes when it fails, and if the user closes the browser then you can just start the polling again.     If you want some callback, you could just send an email when it is finished, to let the user know.     Also, while you are doing the processing, try to give some feedback as to how far you have gone, how much longer it may be, anything to show that progress is being made, that the browser isn't locked up. If nothing else, show a time with how long the processing has been going on, to give the user some sense of progress.  
I think this makes perfect sense. Just wanted to make sure polling is the way to go. Thanks a lot for the input :)
Best practises to convey parameters from JavaScript (jQuery) to a Java based REST service?
  I have made a jQuery based widget which is configured a bit like this:       The parameters like 'format' and 'limit' are easy to handle; I just put them in the query string.      The services configuration part is the problem. Only thing that is constant is that there is an arbitrary number of services (here 'service1-3') with varying amount of parameters (specific to a certain service).      I have tried to configure them in a JSON string, but the parsers that are available for Java are horrible at best. I could parse the configuration to url parameters (like    service2_language=en), but the url could grow too long to handle.     What would you do?  
       the [JSON] parsers that are available for Java are horrible at best.       Somehow I find this hard to believe. Which parser were you using and what was the problem?  
json.org original one and the one at json-lib.sourceforge.net. What I would like to have is to get an array or a nested array of the JSON data without all the state-machine'esque handling with exceptions. The json.org one doesn't support that (as far as I know) and I haven't been able to make the latter one work in that regard either. Are there better alternatives? By better I mean cleaner, no frills, solutions for JSON parsing.
Maybe http://stackoverflow.com/questions/338586/a-better-java-json-library can help.
That's where I got the idea to use JSON at the first place. Currently I'm leaning towards using some arbitrary own syntax for this.
You say json-lib.sourceforge.net supports what you want to do but you could not get it to work. Why not ask the SO community to help you solve that specific problem? In my opinion that would be better than trying to do your own thing.
You're right. However, with this question I was trying to get an opinion if using JSON or something completely else would be "the best" solution for transferring parameters via url.
  Long URLs with JSON data in them will indeed cause potential problems (eg length, escaping, etc), so you really should be using a POST method with the data in the body.  I'd still say JSON is the best bet for serialization, because it is so natively supported in Javascript.  Are you using jQuery or Prototype for doing the client side serialization?     YAML is another rather simple option.  I use    snakeyaml    for Java YAML parsing, though there are occasional discrepancies in Yaml implementation as well.  
What are the problems with SnakeYAML ? Feel free to report an issue http://code.google.com/p/snakeyaml/issues/list
How does python webdriver work?
  I want to add some features to    webdriver   , but since I don't know Java at all, I want to understand the way it works first. So as I get it, there is a firefox plugin (javascript) and there is java code that starts firefox with that extension installed, then this java code listens to a local port and when it gets some command, java signals it to the firefox plugin, which does the actual job. And the python code is just a set of shortcuts to the port interface. It this correct?       Update:       Thanks for the response, malatio. But could anyone please explain, why when I add   alert('Hello world!');   after   FirefoxDriver.prototype.deleteCookie = function(respond, cookieString) {   in   D:\webdriver-read-only\firefox\src\extension\components\firefoxDriver.js   and then run       I still    don't    see the    Hello world!    alert (and get an    error   , by the way)  
  Yeah you've got it. The Java server controls a browser with a special JavaScript environment that allows the server to control it. The server listens for commands given to it through http, when it receives commands, it pulls the strings on the browser to make it do stuff. The Python API for webdriver is code that constructs the right http commands to send to the webdriver server. There may or may not be good descriptions or diagrams for this for Webdriver, but the architecture is very similar for Selenium (in fact, Webdriver and Selenium are being merged into each other as "Selenium 2"). Here's a rundown of the same architecture from the Selenium docs:    how-selenium-rc-works          
Problem while executing ajax
  I am trying to do a simple application using Ajax and servlet. But when i was trying to execute the application, it is not working.  Please go through the code and let me know what would be the problem?       The above functions wrote in Javascript and in servlet        But in the output the the following alerts are being printed,       My web.xml,           In the servlet i have printed "I have entered into servlet" and it is not getting printed in the server window.. So what would be the problem and please give me suggesstions to resolve it... Thanks in advance...     EDIT: this is the exception ocuring when i am trying to execute the above application.. But the class CheckLogin is at the right place... But the same code is working in eclipse. So please anyone tell me what the problem may be???     The requested resource (/login/CheckLogin) is not available.  
Try to fire that from the browser straight and then see whether it hits your servlet or not.
I am not using any special editors except text editor. So everytime i will fire it directly into the browser.
Yeah it is not hitting the servlet and thats my question is about.
Thanks everyone for your valuable suggesstions.
Next step: jQuery. You don't want to have this boilerplate JS code in production.
This isn't a question. You need to isolate the problem instead of just posting your code and asking us to debug it for you.
  you are using the wrong URL:       i don't know what server you are using, but it will by sufficient to use CheckLogin:       or     req.open("get","/login/CheckLogin?user="+username,true);     Probably the server at localhost:8080 isn't reachable.  
Even it is showing the same...
  I think you have to define     req    variable in the top of the javascript page out side the functions. Like,       Try that.  
Yeah i have initialized with the value null at the top and i was forgot to mention..
  please check whether you have followed the correct naming conventions, because i think there no error in the code.  
Thanks hari.. Yeah i have missed out the naming conventions for WEB-INF. Now its working fine..
Call javascript interpreter from a script
  I've written some scripts in Javascript under Rhino 1.7, one of them starts a minimal http server and accepts JS commands in input.     Now, if I call (from within Rhino):       I get the builtin JS engine (from Java 1.6), that is an older version of Rhino, and lacks some functions (like JavaAdapter for multiple interfaces).     How do I get the Rhino Engine instead of that? Do I need ScriptEngineManager.getEngineFactories() or what else?  
Sorry for the redundancy, but: the "engine = ScriptEngineManager()..." is a call in your JS?  Which is being run in Rhino 1.7, but returning the default Java 6 JS script engine instead of Rhino?  Why do you need a new script engine inside of your JS?  Or are you trying to get the current engine / why do you need a reference to the current engine inside of your JS?
Yes. I need a script to start another interpreter, to avoid using eval(). The first script starts an HTTP server, which serves a single page, with an HTML form in it. The POST method sends a command or file name to the server, and the server-side script executes the code.
  Before invoking your initial script, why don't you set the engine you're using as a context variable inside the script?  That way, inside the script, you'll have access to the engine that is running it.  
I'm not sure I understand what you mean. However: changing the java code which runs the javascript engine is what I'm trying to avoid (otherwise I'd implement the whole http-server thing in Java).
  What you want to achieve is to select a certain version of an script engine which implements "JavaScript". The correct way to do that is to call    ScriptEngineManager.getEngineFactories()    and then check the results of    getLanguageName()    and    getEngineVersion()   .  
I already did, but Rhino doesn't register an engine factory.
  I found it out myself (trial and error). As noted above, Rhino doesn't register an engine factory. You can get the current engine (as a context and a scriptable object):       With these objects, I can run my scripts or command lines using evalString/evalReader.  
How to get a reference to the Window object using GWTQuery?
  The title pretty much says it all. I'm trying to use jQuery's ability (hoping GWTQuery has implemented it) to pass a callback function to the window.resize something like this(example from jquery site):        $(window).resize(function(){     alert("Stop it!");   });    but when I tryi to type    $(window)    in Eclipse I get an error that    window    can not be resolved. If anyone's interested in the bigger picture I'm basically trying to get an indciation from the window that is has finished the resizing operation and thus available for further resizing.     Thanks for any help Ittai P.S. please no lectures about browser development and resizing as I'm developing an in house app which just happens to use a browser.  
  OK,  To the best of my knowledge, testing and info searches GWTQuery does not support the jQuery syntax of retrieving the window. This might be related to the fact that GWT has already a Window class (although it is very partial) but I'm not sure. This is true for the time being (Dec` 09) and might change in the future.  
  This functionality has been added to GWTQuery as of 2010-05-03. See    http://code.google.com/p/gwtquery/issues/detail?id=32       Imports required:       after this, you can access the window using       However, no resize() function exists. To respond to a window resize, you can instead register a ResizeHandler to GWT's own window class, like this:    
GWT server-side interaction with database
  I am building a project in GWT that pulls an rss feed, executes regular expressions on the feed (in javascript using JSNI), and then stores that resulting data on a database where the users can access it.     As of right now, I have been writing all the code in the client-side .java file hoping that I could simply transfer it to the server-side.  How do I go about moving part of the code to the server-side of the project?  The code I have now is too bulky to be run on the client-side so id like to run it server-side and store the results in a database.  Is it advisable to write the server-side code using GWT or should that be done with some other framework or maybe PHP?  I would ideally like to develop the entire project with GWT since it has worked really well for me up to this point.     I have also been having trouble finding the resources that I need to connect to the database and update it, server-side from GWT.  Can I do this with Hibernate?     Thank you very much!  
  Sounds to me like you could run the whole thing on the server side and not use GWT.      If you do want to do your processing on the client, you'll need to submit the results to a server over HTTP, probably as text.      You could do this with GWT RPC, an HTTP request using RequestBuilder or finally use a FormPanel containing a hidden field. GWT RPC means you have to write your serverside code in Java. The other two approaches could be any platform that speaks HTTP: PHP, Python, .NET ...     NB: JSNI is powerful but it could be argued that you are throwing away the power of GWT - that is, the ability to write client-side code in Java.  
  If it runs in GWT then it runs in Java (almost): if it is not concerned with widgets or JavaScript directly (via JSNI). Obviously, you want no code that deals with widgets or JSNI on a server anyway.      So go ahead and move it.      To communicate you would use GWT-RPC - your server code simply runs as a servlet with all the power Java servlets offer, including ability to use Hibernate, other Java frameworks. Your server code stays as part of GWT application but doesn't get neither translated to JavaScript nor deployed on a client.     Single best resource on architecture of GWT apps is    here   .  
Yes, you should just be able to add one rpc service - a couple of interface definitions and a method implementation.  You could use raw JDBC on the server side if the database work is simple enough, but if you start having to deal with relationships and writing a lot of CRUD code, switch to Hibernate or something similar.
Wicket: how to synchronize requests within session
  Scenario: Apache Wicket based web application running on Tomcat server.      User opens URL in browser, session is created and simple main page is shown in browser, user clicks on button and    AJAX call is invoked   . Application gets request and doing some stuff preparing response. In same time user or JavaScript in browser invokes    another AJAX call    -- this second requests is processed in another thread in application, and because most parts of application are session specific and aren't thread-safe (because one user = one session),    exception throws   .     Possible solutions:         make all application classes thread-safe (very costly)         adapt GUI so no simultaneously runs two AJAX calls in one session (not possible due nature of browser GUI)         synchronize all requests in one session on Wicket or Tomcat level (but how?)         another practice or technique ???         Thanks  
  What is the exception that is thrown? If an exception is thrown then I would assume that there is a critical section of the Session object that needs to be synchronized or handled with more care and maybe not the entire session.     I have not had reason to utilize them much, but I know there are channels as part of the wicket-ajax.js (found in org.apache.wicket.ajax package). These control how multiple AJAX calls are handled. They might be worth a look. In this file is the following comment:    
I think that specific exception is irrelevant, in fact it was ConcurrentModificationException. More important is that code which is not thread-safe by design was called simultaneously from two threads. I want to block this preferably at Wicket level. I don't want to change all application logic.
Are you modifying the same data? I know in our applications we have gone to good lengths to utilize Wicket's model objects rather than putting things in our session. We have some things in our session, but not a lot.
Finally: it was concurrent access from thread processing the request and another thread which was fired in another previously processed request. Wicket (I belive) really synchronizes requests from same page. Thanks.
  Requests to pages or components within the same PageMap in a single Session are already synchronous - only one thread at a time. Requests for resources like images, javascript, css files etc. are handled asynchronously. (Different clients never block each other as each client has its own Session and PageMap).     However, access to items in the Session itself, I believe, are not explicitly synchronized.     Incidentally, accessing the Session/Pages from a thread which is not a Request Thread is not a good idea, as the container is free to do anything with your Session/Page between requests - e.g. write it out to disk etc.  
As you mentioned, finally it was concurrent access from thread processing the request and another thread which was fired in another previously processed request. Wicket (I belive) really synchronizes requests from same page. Thank you.
How to send data to ActionBean via JavaScript?
  I'm playing with Stripes and I wonder if it is possible to send Javascript generated data to ActionBean. To be more specific, when I click with my mouse on certain element on page, I want to send ID of that element back to ActionBean after clicking on    stripes:link   . Providing I already have that ID saved in a JS variable    id   , how do I do that?  
  create a hidden input element in your html       use javascript to set the value of it       and the value will be posted with your form submission.  
Just tried it, but it doesn't work. Maybe it would if I was using form, but I want to run event via link. Any ideas?
yes that would only work with a form. i'll leave it to someone else to explain how to do it without a form as it would be a bit more of a hack.
  Are you using parameterised link?       Which would most probably generate:    http://mysite.com/...?id=some_default_value   , which you would later use javascript to change    some_default_value    to the    id    you want?         Note   : Suggestion unverified.  I've no dev tool installed on this old lappie.         Edit   : On second thought, why not just write some javascript to append    "?id=" + id;    to the link's url address?  
Jelly + JavaScript
  I'm working with    Hudson plugins   .    Jelly    views are the most complicated thing for me.     So the question is    how to use JavaScript code in Jelly scripts?       P.S. "Hello World" script is working good but simple "for" loop brings a lot of problems...  
  Not sure if this is what you are expecting but, to reference a javascript file (for example):       Regarding the "for" part, I don't get it exactly. Do you mean jelly's      forEach     ?  
i mean something like this http://www.w3schools.com/JS/tryit.asp?filename=tryjs_fornext
back button filter not working
  I have configured a filter to disable my browser back button and show the user as session expired. It is working as expected when i configure that in my application prototype but when i incorporated it to my (spring MVC) application it is not working.     I have configured my filter like this       and i had my filter contents like this       I have intorduced the log statement to see if my filter is getting executed or not.I can see it executing     Could any body please help me why it is happening so.  
  May I suggest using    Firebug    to check out the HTTP headers on the browser end? That should make it easier to see why they're not working as intended.       EDIT    One thing to watch out for, make sure the HTTP headers are all being written out before the HTTP body.   
I not not aware of fire bug. I will try to track this
How to write JavaScript function to check JRE version
  I am new to JavaScript. How to write JavaScript function which will return installed Java version in the computer.     Thanks   Sunil Kumar Sahoo   
  use the    JNLP, the Sun Unified Deployment Mechanism   , the    getJREs()    function is your answer:         NB   it works in a    consistent fashion across various browsers    
    This is the      plugin detect generator page     , also you can check      here      for detail about that.   
  Normally, You cannot directly check Java Version from Javascript, You will need 2 steps.         Check Java is installed or not with javascript first     navigator.javaEnabled()         And then load your java applet, and check it there for version.         PS:      DeployJava      mentioned by others, also doing similar method     Here is some of its codes, writing object tags to page, and checking it.    
  You can use the    deployJava.getJREs()    method in the    Deployment System    (returns a list of currently installed JREs).  
Java String in Javascript function
  I want to pass a Java string variable to Javascript function which I am calling in Java code. Somehow the value of string remains as null. Is there any way to do this?     Here is some sample code       So in above line of code i am calling displayCB javascript function in generated Javascript code while my function for displayCB is like below:       when I debug through firebug, I get str value as null  
some code might help
How are you passing it, using JSTL and response properties?  Please show the code.
Are you passing the value in a response from the javascript, such as a json response?  Javascript won't understand Java, but it does understand strings.
Is the Java running on the server or the client?
       pass a Java string variable to Javascript function       Does this mean that:         You're using JSP (server-side) to render values that are passed to JavaScript code which is executed on the client-side. This is not really calling between Java and JavaScript, more like generating JavaScript code with Java.          You're really calling from Java to JavaScript, i.e using the JS runtime (Rhino?) in the JVM         Once you clarify this point, I'll try and help further. Also, please show the relevant code.       Update:     It seems like the only possible reason why    str    is null is because the    formname    parameter of yout JS function is null. The value passed for this parameter (in code generated by the JSP) is    e.getFormName()   .   
Yes, you are right with first point. That's what I am doing. Here is some sample code cb.set(CheckBox.ONCLICK,"displayCB(" + e.getFormName() + ",document.Profile.UniqueForm"+"_TestOpt)"); So in above line of code i am calling displayCB javascript function in generated Javascript code while my function for displayCB is like below: sc.add("function displayCB(formname,field){"); sc.add("var str = formname + 'TestOption'"); .... when I debug through firebug, I get str value as null.
Can you please add this to your original post (use the edit button) and format it properly so I can actually read it
Check the main question.
Don, I have checked its value and it is definitely not null.
thanks, Am I right in passing the value that way?
Honestly, I think you should avoid this sort of code-generation. As you can see above, it makes it very difficult to see what's actually happening in the JS code
  try changing        to       The additional single quotes will make the script treat the value as a string literal instead of a variable name.  
That Worked. Excellent. Thanks.
Java Ajax Framework integration
  I'm looking for a java AJAX framework which I can include into my existing webapp. I've found    sweetDev RIA    . Are there such other frameworks which I could look into it?  
  I would really check out    extjs.com   . It is the most feature complete javascript component library I know of. The components are fast, have beautiful default styling, and the API is very powerful. AJAX support is also excellent. Most of my current web development include extjs in some way.     It's very easy to use this library with java. Most of the time, I just have some server side component that returns data in JSON.     There is also    ExtTLD   ; a tablib wrapper for extjs. I have never used it myself, though.  
  I'd take a look at    DWR   : Direct Web Remoting.  It allows you to directly call Java (web services) from JavaScript in a really intuitive way.  
  I suggest ExtJS (with jQuery underneath), but you might prefer    GWT   .  I think it's easier for Java programmers who are seeking to wade slowly into JavaScript waters.  
  Google Web Toolkit (    GWT    )  
  you can also use Apache's 'Myfaces' project    http://myfaces.apache.org   Its a JSF implementation, and also has components with in built ajax capability.  
  You can try SweetDevRia, it's possible to add ajax in your application without writing Javascript. You only need to use JSP tags  
  Last couple of years, I have been developing rich looking web applications with    icefaces   .  It is pretty cool, ajax is buit-in and it blends very well with jsf. If you use icefaces, javascript is not required anymore. In our web project we use javascript only in couple of places.      Here is an excerpt from icefaces homepage: "As a leading open source Ajax framework, ICEfaces is more than a Ajax JSF component library, it's an J2EE Ajax framework for developing and deploying rich enterprise applications (REAs). With ICEfaces, enterprise Java developers can easily develop rich enterprise applications in Java, not JavaScript."   
Is it possible to use ICEfaces along with jboss portal server and using them in portlets?
Access is Denied Exception when calling JavaScript function from Java in IE
  I am getting Access Denied exception when I am calling a Java Script Function from Java Applet only in IE. ( modified my original question with updated information.)     Here is my HTML code         ju    is declared globally in the same page which calls the doneUpload from a different JavaScript file. I have included MAYSCRIPT in my applet Tag.      Java Code [After adding AccessController] :       });       It throws an    JSException: Access is denied       The    alert    function in    uploadComplete    is not called. What am I doing wrong here?   
its difficult to read what is code here and what is your text... can you please use StackOverFlow.com syntax when representing code? (placing 4 spaces in front of each line of code puts it into a codebox)
I've formatted the code to generate better response.
well... he may not be getting "better" responses... but at least its properly formatted now.
What OS/Java version are you using?
Using Windows XP and JRE version 1.6.0_05
  Does    this    help?     A summary from that answer on the Sun forums:     Hello, I had same problem. I solved it, you just need to implement applets method like this:       The only problem with this approach is that when you call method for the first time, it takes pretty long time to respond (4-5s), and every next time, response is immediately.       Edit   : OK, a second potential solution is to use getDocument() as described in    this article   . One word of warning, in our testing, we have seen that this is not always reliable on Firefox on the Mac. The essence of this method is to do:    
It still doesn't help ... I wrapped AccessController over my code and still get Access is Denied exception. Should I check applet.policy or crossdomain.xml ?
I had showDocumnet before  URL url = new URL("javascript:uploadComplete()"); uploadDialogBox.applet.getAppletContext().showDocument(url, "_self");  but it doesn't work in IE but works in FF. So was trying liveconnect as an alternative.
Actually, after wrapping my code over AccessController it works in FF but doesn't for IE. So comes down to a browser issue ? It gives the "Access is Denied." when scriptObject.call("uploadComplete", null);  is called.
My guess is that this is a browser issue, and that your IE is probably locked down and won't allow external access to the DOM.
Open source software which allows user to draw ER/flow diagrams for my web application
  we are developing a web application which allows a user to draw diagrams(flow/ER diagrams) and we need the representation of that diagram in some XML or other formats. How should we acheive this ?? is there any open source software or jQuery plugin or anyother server side software??    
Dupe of http://stackoverflow.com/questions/285828/open-source-er-diagramming-tool-for-mysql among many others
But all the other questions are related tools which help the users to draw E/R,Flow digrams our question is about software which allows us to easily use it in our web application
  How about something like    SlickMap   ? It lets you create the diagram structure as HTML, which then gets styled using CSS.  
Using javascript APIs in Java
  I am writing a standalone application in Java that needs to be able to call custom Javascript APIs? Is there a way to call custom Javascript APIs in Java?  
  In a browser?     If your applet exposes a scriptable interface, yes you can.  
  In a standalone app: should be possible by using    Rhino   .  
This looks like a good thing. Perhaps for the custom APIs, it would be good to use the Rhino Javascript Compiler. Then, use those classes in my Java code?
For the purposes of scripting your application, it is better to embed Rhino in your application and then interpret the scripts at run time. That would allow your users to create "macros" that control your app. Where you store the scripts doesn't matter (resource bundle, files, DB etc) If you compile your JS to java class files using the compiler, then they aren't really any different then any other Java class file, which is probably not what you want.
  Aside from the name, javascript and java have no relationship whatsoever.  
I didn't mod you down but I would guess whoever did so did it because it is not true anymore...
i think i will never be able to understand why the hell on SO, do somebody downvote sensible answers as well
This answer is not sensible, it is irrelevant. stjowa is clearly aware that Java and Javascript are different beasts.
@Fredrik.  Could you elaborate on the relationship?  Surely you can use both in the same project, and things like Rhino let them interact, but as languages they are independent, and javascript is really just another name for ecmascript anyway.
    JSon    could be your one stop. Let me know if you are looking for this?  
.............hein?
I guess this answer assumes that the "Javascript APIs" in question are services accessible through the internet.
Focus behavior in Applet-Javascript interaction
  I have a web page with an applet that opens a popup window and also makes Javascript calls. When that Javascript call results in a focus() call on an HTML input, that causes the browser window to push itself in front of the applet window. But only on certain browsers, namely MSIE. On Firefox the applet window remains on top. How can I keep that behavior consistent in MSIE? Note that using the old Microsoft VM for Java also achieves the desired (applet window in front) result.     HTML code:       Java code:    
  The real question is why are you using an applet?  It's been a while since I've done Java, but unless you've stripped out a lot of code from your example, it looks like you're just doing a simple dialog box.     If that is the case,    this can done easily and cheaply through any number of JavaScript libraries like    Dojo    and    jQuery    for example.  
Yes, it's stripped down. The real applet is legacy code written many years ago before Ajax was even coined. I'm certainly considering switching this to a pure web-based implementation but that would take a fair amount of coding.
I was afraid that would be the case.  Depending on what the dialog does, you may want be able to get away with pawning some of the work off on an existing JavaScript library.  Here's a short list of the many different JavaScript dialog tools available: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1884096/modern-windowless-popups/1884343#1884343
    by change to these should word.  
  We should encourage Oracle to support applets in web browsers more. After all, they are trying to push JavaFX technology which is applet technology. As far as focus isses are concerned, this seems to be complex. What about getting the basics rigt? Please refer to    Applet steals Focus    as a start.  
NetBeans: Specifying html for Applet which uses JSObject for debugging
  I would like to specify html for my applet and debug it in NetBeans.     The helpful is following: My applet class is    MainApplet   . I put    MainClass.html    in the same folder with    MainApplet.java   . After this I run applet via right click on file in NetBeans and selecting Debug "MainApplet.java". It looks like applet tag from    MainApplet.html    is used, e.g. dimensions of applet are taken from my    MainApplet.html   .     BUT:     When    netscape.javascript.JSObject.getWindow(this)    is called in applet    netscape.javascript.JSException    is thrown. This is when running applet in applet viewer. In browser all works good - no exception thrown.       Is it possible to debug applet by right click on it in NetBeans and select Debug and at the same time    JSObject.getWindow(this)    is executed successfully? What should be configured to obtain such behaviour?       I use NetBeans 6.5     If there are completely different scenarios which result in easy debug it would be good to know about them as well.  
  Debugging an applet uses appletviewer, not a true browser. You can however, debug an applet running in a browser. Here's the explanation of how it's done:    Debugging Applet Remotely    
This works! Thanks. Not exactly what I need but anyway very useful!
JSON, JS to Java and Vice Versa, and other languages
  I want to use JSON to represent JS objects send them to a Java program, and vice versa. I would also like to do this for other languages.  C# to Java maybe?     What do I use to do this?  (Not sure if it is refered to as serialization or data binding)     Edit: Once a Java object is represented in JSON, does this mean that JavaScript can parse it and convert it to the corresponding JavaScript objects?  
JSON libraries?  or am I missing something?
Thanks for your answers everyone. I should be able to do this, after I choose a library that is. From reading your comments I can see my main problem was that I wasn't thinking about what I was doing correctly.
  To go from JSON to objects in Java, I've heard that    json-simple    works well.  It maps the JSON to a Java Map, which can contain String, Numbers, Lists and other Maps.  This is a little simpler than some other libraries, which map directly to Java objects that you need to create to represent the JSON.     For an exhaustive list of JSON libraries in most major languages including both Java and C#, check out    json.org   .  
  You could use Google Web Toolkit to share objects between javascript and Java. With GWT you write all your code in Java and then the GWT compiler will handle the serialization of the RPC calls from javascript to Java and vice vera.  
GWT is mega-overkill if all the OP needs is simple JSON serialization and deserialization.
Not necessarily. GWT abstracts away all the serialization and deserialization. I would actually argue the exact opposite. GWT seems to be a very very simple solution for passing objects between javascript and java.
  If you mean over some sort connection (network, local pipe, etc), it would be called data serialization.  You'd use a library to encode your objects.     json.org    has a list of libraries that can do what you want.     If you're writing a Java server with a JS front end, there's always    GWT   , too (I've never used, but heard great things about it)  
  I would recommend using    Gson    for this. It has the advantage that it supports generics and nested beans very well and it is also fast enough. I've posted a    Gson#fromJson()    example which converts a fairly complex JSON string to Java here:    http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1688099/converting-json-to-java/1688182#1688182       The    Gson#toJson()    to convert any valid Javabean-like object to JSON is basically a piece of cake:              Edit: Once a Java object is represented in JSON, does this mean that JavaScript can parse it and convert it to the corresponding JavaScript objects?         Sure you can access them like a JS object. If you're new to using JSON in JS as well, then I can recomment this kickoff tutorial:    http://www.hunlock.com/blogs/Mastering%5FJSON%5F%28%5FJavaScript%5FObject%5FNotation%5F%29    
  To serialize javascript objects for transmission to a server, I've used    https://github.com/douglascrockford/JSON-js/blob/master/json2.js   . Very nice and easy.     To get JSON data in and out of java, I found this library pretty straightforward:   http://json-lib.sourceforge.net/       Creating javascript objects from JSON is a non-issue. JSON is valid javascript. You can simply run eval on it, or use a javascript library, which may offer some built-in security, which eval doesn't have.  
Convert APPLET tags to OBJECT tags for IE6
  I have converted the following applet tags to object tags so that it can work. But for some reason the below isn't working. Firstly,    Is the below a correct conversion that should work?       Applet:       Object:       Btw, I am using JavaScript to write the above to the page.     I have a button on the page which tries to call a Java Applet function using JavaScript but I get this error.       The above Javascript is having trouble calling functions from the Java applet because the applet hasn't been loaded properly.     Thanks all for any help.  
  Add the    ID    and    Name    attributes directly to the    object    tag, not as    param   's:         Removed document.write for readability.       And I would recommend you to get the elements by ID, not by    document.elementName   :    
Thanks for the reply, I made those changes but it still hasn't managed to load up the applet in IE6. I will have to open a more specific question. Thanks.
  Firefox fails with your classid attribute. The below should work cross browser:-       In my tests both IE8 and FF5 required the "type" attribute, which you omitted. The mayscript param is only required for Java plugins before 1.6.0.10. The scriptable param is still required according to javadocs 1.6.0.21. In a test with 1.6.0.24 for a signed applet, IE8 called it OK from JS without scriptable being set true.  
*"The below should work cross browser:"*  I prefer to leave the cross-browser part of it to `deployJava.js`.  See the [info. on applet tag](http://stackoverflow.com/tags/applet/info) page for a link.
Why does this Java applet crash and close IE6?
  I am using the following Java Applet to get the full file path of a file that is to be uploaded:      SVN LittleShoot     .     The thing is, the applet is initialized and it seems to be running in IE6 - but when I call one of the functions from JavaScript to the applet to open the file dialog box the browser crashes and closes itself just the dialog because shows up.     Why is the case? How can I debug this, I don't have any log files to look at? What may be the cause - I am willing to take wild guesses here as I am desperate!     HTML Usage (removed JS):       Update     I get this error now: "Object doesn't support this property or method." I think its talking about this line.       Using just the HTML version, I get a JS error!  
Why the "Javascript" tag?
Does the applet work with Firefox? If yes: what are the versions of the java-plugins?
Yes, it works with Firefox and even IE8. My JRE (SE) version is 1.6 which I guess is the same for the java-plugins as it comes bundled with the JRE.
@Pointy - what do you mean the JavaScript tag? Do you mean why am I using JS to call the applet?? I need to use it in this way.
Does it show the dialog and crashes afterwards or does it crash before you can see the dialog?
I open the dialog from with IE and then all it shows is the initialization of the applet and it then crashes.
Have you tried surrounding the line openDialog("onFileDialogFile", "onFileDialogCancel"); in newFileDialog with a try {} catch (Exception e) {e.printStrackTrace()} to catch all Exceptions?
I haven't tried that, but I think this is more of an IE6 issue and was wondering if my usage of this class was not set-up properly for IE6, because it works on all other browsers on windows XP (except IE7 haven't got that). I have added my usage.
Is this continuing from your earlier post? http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1906999/does-this-applet-work-for-you
Not really, I found what was happening thanks to Matt Joslin. My browser wasn't doing anything (not even loading the applet) but Matt's solution showed the browser was actually crashing.
I am using this particular script as well and also have problems with it. Did you by any chance need to sign the applet? Thanks
I gave up with it to be honest, I need something that works with IE in a safe way, so I have opted for a less effective user interface.
  Open the Java Console and load the applet.  Go to the Control Panel > Java > advanced and enable debugging and the console  
Those are enabled, but when I view the Java console within the browser and it crashes, it takes that console along with it. Is there a global standalone console I can use??
I think if the browser dies the window will close too but you can still view the logs/trace files under your Applicaiton Data/Sun/Java directory
  What happens if you put in some test calls from within the Applet itself: to make the same call that the JS calls hook into ? Does this also crash ?     If it doesn't crash, then I would say you have found a bug in the browser itself (or 'LiveConnect' - whatever the kids are calling Java   ->JS communication these days..)     If that it is the case, I would suggest the following:         Simplify the Applet, so that it contains the minimum amount of code in order that it crashes: same goes for the JSScript.         Get it to crash - then your stuck with debugging a Windows program I think:           http://www.microsoft.com/whdc/DevTools/Debugging/default.mspx    
  You seem to say that just opening up the Java Console causes a crash as well ?     If that is the case , see this posting on the Sun Web Site:       http://bugs.sun.com/view_bug.do?bug_id=6563344    
JQgrid and Java
  Can someone point to jqgrid + java web app solution or especially with populating the grid and sending the form back to server. there are several php examples but nothing on java.  
  Here is one example on the web:         jqGrid Forum: how-use-jqgrid-in-jsp-server-one-example      
  If you want to use some advanced tools like Spring, Hibernate and Maven here is the good example.         http://krams915.blogspot.in/2012/01/spring-mvc-31-jqgrid-and-spring-data_1887.html           EDIT:     See this, if you want to use plain Servlet and JSP. This is very basic example.           http://javahunter.wordpress.com/2010/12/07/jqgrid-example/      
  If you are using    struts2    there's a plugin which includes    jqueryui    and    jqgrid    components.       http://struts2-jquery.googlecode.com/    
Error when running Rhino
  I have downloaded and compiled the newest version of Rhino by going       When I run it like so I get the following error       Also    $JAVAHOME    points to /usr/lib/jvm/java-6-sun  
  Do you really mean $JAVAHOME?  Or do you mean to say $JAVA_HOME?  
Right, it's `$JAVA_HOME` on my system too.
I meant JAVA_HOME
  There's a bug in that version of rhino that affects some versions on Linux. It fails when trying to load the jLine library (for command-line editing and completion). There's a patch that fixes the problem and was merged into CVS at    https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=495785   . Unfortunately, I think jLine support will be broken, since it's not finding the class loader.  
  Java 6 is shipped with a JS api based on Rhino.    Check it out   .     PS: It works darn well.  
Assigning values from JavaScript to Java variable
  How to assign a value from JavaScript to Java variable in the JSP page? Is it possible to do this?     The following is the javascript function:        Even I have assigned that    beanArrayVal    value in hidden input field too using id    beanVal    in the same above mentioned function. It's good enough even if is possible to assign value from this hidden field to JSTL variable.  
Crossposted here: http://forums.sun.com/thread.jspa?threadID=5421116.
  JS runs at the client machine. Java runs at the server machine. The only communication tool between those is HTTP. Java/JSP can generate/produce a HTML page and send it from server to client as a HTTP response, thus it can easily (pre)set Javascript variables by simply generating them as-is in the JSP template. But the other way round really requires a HTTP request from the client to the server. You can invoke HTTP requests synchronously by clicking a link or submitting a form, either manually or with little help of Javascript like    link.click()    or    form.submit()   . You can also invoke HTTP requests asynchronously with help of    Ajaxical    powers.     Long story short: let JS set it as a (hidden) input value / request parameter and send it to the server side by submitting the form with the (hidden) input value, or by invoking a link with the request parameter, or by firing an ajax request with a query string.     To learn more about the wall between Java/JSP and Javascript, you may find this article useful as well:    Java/JSP/JSF and JavaScript   .     Hope this clears a lot of things up and opens a new world for you.  
Get Javascript tag content
  Hi I want to save a website's source code into a file using java. From the source code i want to get only      script       /script      tag contents how can i do that?  
do you mean Java or JavaScript? They're completely different technologies...
He wants to get the Javascript out of a page, by using Java.
You have Javascript in your subject, but Java in your question.  Which is it?  Java is to Javascript like ham is to hamster.
@Randal LOL!I was looking for a comparison like that, but couldn't think of one -- that's great! Anon looked at the source of his question and saw the unescaped script tags -- I think he's got it right.
Which part do you need help with?  You need to download the file over HTTP in Java (step 1) and then parse the HTML to extra the `  
I pass in an URL, it will retrieve the content of that website. Then I want save only the   
I want to save the java script code into a file currently I only able save whole source code into file
  Use an HTML parser in Java to extract text from HTML.  
To expand the (right) answer a bit: here are several listed: http://java-source.net/open-source/html-parsers
  Once you've loaded the source code to a variable in Java, find the position of      script      and the position of      /script      in the file and delete everything that's not inside that range.     Something like:       So the substring would be:       (This may be plainly wrong, I can't test it at the moment, sorry)  
I not sure how to do that can you please direct me to any tutorial or example i had researched using Google few days already still can not find what exactly I want
That will only work if there's a single script element in the page...
Hi thanks, but my source code got multiple script element, any solution to grab multi   
An HTML parser.
newbie, take Johnny's code and put it in a loop. the indexOf() method will find the NEXT occurence of the string, so the first time thru the loop, you found the first start/end pair. on the next loop iteration, set your starting position to 1 past the endInt, and you'll find the next pair. Each time thru the loop, add the jsCode string to a Collection. When there are no more matches, you're done, and your collection has an item for each script element you found. Note that this only gets you the code of inline scripts, not the source of included scripts e.g. [script src='foo.js][/script]
Can I put in the while loop so what condition i should put, because I keep hang when I call the method I think the problem is infinite loop. while(){    int startInt = sourceCode.indexOf(startTag);     int endInt   = sourceCode.indexOf(endTag); }
get the length of the entire body of the page. in the while() clause, test that startInt is less than that length. each time thru the loop, you'll have to make indexOf() start just past the last endInt: indexOf(sourceCode, endInt +1) or somesuch. Look at http://www.java-samples.com/showtutorial.php?tutorialid=225. That's all from me, gotta go home now...
jsp tag library changes checkbox name?
  I'm trying to use a select all checkbox to select a column of checkboxes.      So I gave all the ones I want checked off at once the same name    ABoxesElement    so that I can easily check them all on in javascript.     However when I use firebug in firefox I can see that the checkboxes did not keep the name I gave them but pre-pended the component name and appended an auto-incrementing number to my checkboxes.     Since I cannot use regex in getElementByName how can I go about setting the same value in multiple checkboxes. (ID is used for something else).. here is my code:       Select All Checkbox           Example of one of the checkboxes that I want checked           **Example of Javascript **         When the page renders however I notice that the name of the individual checkboxes is not    ABoxesElement    but something like    component_nameAboxesElement_2    so the script won't work unless getElementsByName can accept regexes.      Any ideas on how to go around this?     the tld for checkbox has another attribute        can use that to store the "name" and then access the element through it?       EDIT HTML OUTPUT for an individual checkbox           EDIT 2 HTML OUTPUT for a selectall checkbox        
When writing JS, please take generated HTML output into consideration. All what JS sees is only the HTML DOM tree. You could just smartly make use of it. You can update your question with the smallest possible extract of the generated HTML (at least the "select all" checkbox and the table with checkboxes).
  The    datafield    attribute is used to provide an object property(such as    r_object_id   ,   r_version_label    etc.) as data to the control, which wont help much in this case.     A not so perfect solution could be to set    runatclient="false"    in your dmf tag and reference the checkboxes by different names in the corresponding component; then instead of javascript you can use a java method in the component class to get a handle on the checkboxes and modify their values. The WDK generated name attribute for the checkboxes depends on the component name and probably their order in the JSP, so I am not sure if its a good idea to assume that WDK will always generate the same names for the checkboxes. However processing in the component class will always be slower than a javascript function.  
can I just use regular html input checkboxes instead of the dmf if I don't really use them elsewhere? this way it will not change the name
AFAIK you should be able to use plain HTML controls in your jsp, but I am not too sure on how to get a handle on their values if you are going to need the checkbox values in your component class.
  Here's a kickoff:       You could eventually pass the    'mform_content_ABoxes_'    in as another function argument, or even extract it from    checkboxElement.name    if you know the patterns used in generating the    name    attribute.  
ended up using something like this but it feels inefficient to loop through all the checkboxes for each of my categories but I guess I can't do much since the name is automatically named and auto-incremented.. it's still fast enough though so that's ok
It's only inefficient if you've more than 10,000 fields or so (which would maybe last one second) You can't get it faster.
Printing a java scriptlet variable as if it is a JavaScript variable
  hello i need to output a java variable inside a javascript call inside a tag inside a jsp !     for example:       the javascript generated is:       selectAll(   %=param%   ),this);    but I actually want something like     
  Generate the whole attribute value with a scriptlet, like this:    
  That's not escaping. That's just printing a scriptlet variable as if it is a JavaScript variable.      Besides, your examples are confusing, they doesn't match each other and the Javascript code is syntactically invalid. I can at least tell that JavaScript string variables are to be surrounded by quotes. If you want to end up with       where    Hello    should be obtained as a value of the scriptlet local    name    variable (the    param    is a reserved variable name, you shouldn't use it yourself), then you need to do       In the same way, if you want to end up with       you need to do       That said, I strongly recommend you to stop using the old fashioned scriptlets which are been discouraged since more than a decade. JSP programmers were been recommended to use taglibs and EL only to make the JSP code more clean and robust and better maintainable. You can use taglibs such as    JSTL    to control the flow in the JSP page and you can use    EL    to access the "back-end" data. Your example can be replaced by:    
good tips will look into JSTL
  maybe you are trying to achieve this?    
Generate well formatted JavaScript
  I'm generating huge amount of JavaScript(on server side, ExtJS code) and for debug purposes(mainly,since for production I will -probably - minify the code) it would be nice to have well formatted JavaScript code.     Anybody know a library which offer such support?     Thanks.     Edit 1: What I'm looking for is a Java library which will :        layout/format a generated script or     help me to create the script(which I actually started to do, because it is easier to layout/format during generation than post generation - analyzing a complex JavaScript file looks more complicated than writing the script with correct indentation/layout) by providing a higher level    Writer   , which takes care of all the layout/indentation.    
Didn't any of those help? http://www.google.com/search?q=javascript+code+formatter That was a pretty straightforward query. If you actually did try some, then please elaborate which you tried and how they didn't satisfy. This way we can provide better answers.
Yes, I already looked at many of those, but most of them are online applications. What I'm looking for is a Java library which will :  - layout/format a generated script  - help me to create the script(which I actually started to do, because it is easier to layout/format during generation than post generation - analyzing a complex JavaScript file looks more complicated than writing the script with correct identation/layout).
OK, a Java library.. Sorry, no one comes to mind. Although, the `Ctrl+Shift+F` in Eclipse (the code formatter) works nicely on JS code as well. As Eclipse is written in pure Java, you may find something useful in its core API's.
Indeed, current IDEs offer code layout and it works well, however I need something like this at runtime. Unfortunatly, I would have to import half of their API to access that :)
See also http://stackoverflow.com/questions/351298/best-source-code-formatter-for-javascript and http://stackoverflow.com/questions/18985/javascript-beautifier. Not the exact same question, but there might be some useful info there.
@Eli - Thanks for pointing out, I already searched stackoverflow for a similar question and found those answers.
  I find    PolyStyle    very handy. It's a Windows executable, works with many languages, integrates with the Shell and many IDEs, allows definition of custom styles by example, and comes with a trial version. It costs $15, money well spent in my opinion.     I'm not sure about server side JS, though, and whether there are any intricacies it can't handle (I've never worked with any). You would have to check for that.  
Looks nice, but I'm looking for something made in Java, it is easier to integrate.
You may want to be clearer on that in your question, it's hard to tell right now.
expanded the question...
  I'm not aware of a pure Java solution but I was able to run that    javaScript beautifuler written in javascipt    under    Rhino (javaScript on the JVM)   .     Unfortunately    there's a bug    affecting this script in the Java 6 version of Rhino. You could edit the script to avoid    that bug    or use the    Mozilla version of Rhino   .     Here's some code to run the beautifuler script under Mozilla Rhino:    
Looks promising, but I'm a little bit concerned about performance. I will give it a try, thanks.
@adrian.tarau - if you're feeling adventurous, why not try porting the beautifier code to Java? It's not much code, and it doesn't look *too* difficult to port.
I am adventurous, but I don't have too much time ;)
You could gain some performance by keeping around a reference to cx and scope, only making the last evaluateString() call each time.
True, but still layouting a JS around 40K with FireFox took around ~1sec, I presume with Rhino it would take at least double the time. Even if it would be used only for debug purposes - like enabled on devel servers - and not every time I will have a JS around this size, it still seems a bottleneck - opening a complex dialog with ExtJS will be displayed to the user after 4-6 seconds(6-8 if you use IE6).
  I use    JSEclipse    from Adobe, its very useful for writing well formatted JS. It even has code suggestion. i.e. Auto Complete.   
Thanks, but I'm Looking for a Java library...
  Well, in the end I made my own JavaScript "Writer" since I couldn't find something that fits my needs.     I think it is always preferred to write things in the correct form instead of dump them with a template engine(like Velocity or FreeMaker) and then apply a layout engine.     Thank you for your answers.  
can you send me the link? I've got the same problem. Thanks.
    Disclaimer.    I am the author of the    JS Code Model library    which suits this task very well.     With JSCM you can generate syntactically correct, well-formatted Javascript from Java.     Example. The following Java code:       Generates the following JavaScript code:         Another disclaimer   : this is for code generation ONLY, this is no Java beautyfier (however probably may be turned into one).     Still, the OP asked about code generation therefore I thing this tool is suitable.  
WebBrowser1 problem with external web app
  the external Application works good in IE so i know the problem is inside My App.     The external web app is java applet and java script based, and the problem im experiensing is when the java applet tryes to run a java script. The Applet opens a seconday window with a java script and tryes to do some operations but then i just stops. And my Application seems to be non responsive and i have to restart it.     in IE it works just fine, the java applet opens the window does its thing and updates back in to the Applet.     anyone know why it not working in the webBrowser control?   
  Two scenerio could be possible:     1) whenever we opens the web site in web browser control any previous session(authentication) cookie is not being reused, and new session will be created.     2) you have to override the eventhandler webBrowser_newWindow to allow opening the new window.   
it might be cookie related as it seems it opens a IE window not a new webBrowser window.
Simple hash function (1 byte output from string input)
  I'm looking for a simple hash algroithm that will give me one byte of output for a string input (the inputs will be RFC822 email addresses, if that helps).     I'd like it to be simple, fast, and to magnify input differences (so two similar addresses have differnt outputs). (Yes, I    am    asking for a lot in one byte of output.)     Idealy, I'd like an XSL answer, but I can take it in either Java or Javascript (and then pass the hash as an argument to the XSL processor).     Thanks.  
If you want an XSLT based solution, then does it really matter if it results in 1 byte?
  Use a CRC-8, which has 9 bits of information, then drop a bit off either end and call it a day. Otherwise use any of the other common CRC algorithms.  
  Why not take the most/least significant byte of the standard String    hashCode()    function ?  
That should work as a java solution, but I'm holding out for an XSLT one.
  Every hash function has its strengths and weaknesses, and fast and easy to compute ones tend to behave badly for certain classes of data. Trial and error needs to be a part of any solution. In addition to the other suggestions, you might try using integer multiplication as part of the hash function, for example    
  My suggestion would be to simply XOR all the bytes in the string. Every bit of every byte will influence the end result, and any single-bit error will definitely cause the hash to differ.     Very simple, very fast. And probably nearly as good as any other solution, given the small number of result bits.  
You'd probably want a bit more than that, as most email addresses are predominantly lowercase ascii with one '@' and one '.'; so you get only about 5 bits of variation rather than 8.
I don't believe the wildly simplistic premise of the question justifies any more effort than this. Does it really matter if you detect different addresses in 31/32 cases (=96.9%) or 255/256 (=99.6)?
A possible problem with a simple XOR is that it is unaffected by order, so that "abc" has the same hash as "cba". But the XOR could ultimately work as well or better as something more painful, because as you point it is basically impossible to do very well with an 8 bit output. The XOR method will detect an odd number of bit errors in *any* of the bit positions, a definite plus.
At the risk of overengineering this, I would be tempted to compute the lower order 5 bits of the hash as you suggested, and the high-order 3 bits using something like my earlier method but with hash3 = ((5 * hash3) + data[i]) mod 7 instead. This should also detect about 6/7 of the misordered addresses as well.
If one bit switch 0->1 and another 1->0, you will get the same hash for such a modified string. So "abcd" will have the same hash as "acbd".
Using Scanner/Parser/Lexer for script collation
  I'm working on a JavaScript collator/compositor implemented in Java. It works, but there has to be a better way to implement it and I think a Lexer may be the way forward, but I'm a little fuzzy.     I've developed a meta syntax for the compositor which is a subset of the JavaScript language.  As far as a typical JavaScript interpreter is concerned, the compositor meta syntax is legal, just not functional (I'm using synonyms to reserved words as labels followed by code blocks which the compositor is supposed to interpret). Right now, I'm using a scanner and regex to find the meta syntax in source files, then do a shallow lexical transform based on detection of legal expressions.     There is a tight coupling between the rewritten javascript and the scanner/parser which I am not happy with, as the rewritten javascript uses features of an object support library specially written for the purpose, and that library is subject to change.     I'm hoping that I can declare just the meta syntax in Backaus-Naur or EBNF, feed it to a lexer (ANTRL?), and on the basis of meta syntax expressions detected in source files, direct the compositor to certain actions, such as prepending a required script to another, declaring a variable, generating text for a suitably parameterised library function invocation, or even compressing a script.     Is this the appropriate way to make a compositor? Should I even be using a Scanner/Parser/Lexer approach to compositing JavaScript? Any feedback appreciated- I'm not quite sure where to start :)     UPDATE: Here is a more concrete example- sample object declaration with meta syntax:       This describes the object ie.ondevice.Example, that inherits Mixin and resembles (i.e. 'implements the same functions and traits as') TraitsDeclaration. The compositor would detect use statements, and fail if the namespace does not map to a valid file location, or otherwise prepend the scripts in which object declarations reside, preprocessing meta syntax there before collation.     The rewrite rules, expressed in terms of the object support library I mentioned would result in a file that    may    look like this (I've developed a number of ways to express the object):       Perhaps I'm over architecting my requirements, but what I would really like is an event driven collator- listeners could then be loosely coupled to directive detections.  
  Do you want to build a lexical scanner (a.k.a. "lexer" or tokenizer) or a syntax-directed parser?  
That, I'm not sure about- I'm new to the domain, but a syntax-directed parser sounds appropriate- would you be able to expand on that a little?
  Yes, using parser generator (like    ANTLR   ) is the way to go IMO. If you provide a more concrete example of what it is you're trying to parse, perhaps I (or someone else) can help you further.       Scott Stanchfield    created a couple of good    video tutorials    for    ANTLR    starting from the very beginning.     EDIT:     Given your example:       here's how a grammar (for ANTLR) could look like:       The above is called a mixed grammar (ANTLR will generate both the lexer and parser). The "rules" starting with a capital are lexer-rules and the ones starting with a lower case are parser-rules.     Now you could let the generated parser create a    FJSObject    (Fuzzy JavaScript Object):       and while your parser is going through the token-stream, it simply "fills"    FJSObject   's variables. You can embed plain Java code in the grammar by wrapping    {    and    }    around it. Here's an example:       Store the above in a file called    FJS.g   ,    download    ANTLR and let it generate your lexer     parser like this:       And to test it, run this:       which should produce the following:       Now you could let the    FJSObject    class generate/rewrite your meta/source files. From that class, you could also do checks to see whether an included file actually exists.     HTH.  
@Bart- thanks for the links- I've updated the post and would be very interested in your feedback!
@Bart- I'm bowled over- thats clarified a lot for me- especially the strategy of delegating to a Java instance to do the writing for me- I look forward to testing this out. I think its question answered!
No problem VLostBoy. Let me know if you need any clarification.
  You may want to look into the    Mozilla Rhino    project -- it's a full solution for running JavaScript on the JVM, but the code to parse JavaScript code is fairly well enapsulated and can be used without the full execution functionality.  
I had considered that as an abstract possibility, but I'm not sure that I could use Rhino to collate javascript- AFAIK Rhino can compile JavaScript to Java only- do you know how, in principle, how Rhino could be used as a programmable script collator?
CSS file is not loading?
  I am having a JSP file with the below codes       When i run this JSP file individually on the server both the CSS file and the Java script file are loading correctly ,but the problem is when i forward the request from a servlelt both the CSS and the Java Script file is not loading. Can anyone help me out with this problem?     I am having all the html, jsp, CSS, java script into separate folders.     Like     Web-content   |      |--  HTML (This folder will have all the HTML files)      |--- CSS (This folder will have CSS files)   |--- js   |--- JSP  
What is the URL you use to access your servlet?
i am using     to access the servlet, can i know why you are asking this?
  These files are loaded from the client which will interpret relative links to the base URL. If you are internally forwarding a request to a different servlet, you have to pay attention to what the client thinks is the URL. It may be necessary to switch to absolute links or generate a base tag.     These types of problems are easily seen client-side debugging with Firebug or Safari for example. You're probably getting 404s on the css and javascript links.  
  I'd examine the server logs to find out the URLs that are being requested by the browser when it loads this page and its dependents.  
how to examine the server logs ?
That depends on what webserver you are running.
i am using apache tomcat, i have configured tomcat with eclipse, and the log folder in the apache tomcat folder is empty. So where can i find that
  Use      c:url      to resolve absolute URIs (this example assumes that ".." in your code is a webapp root):    
(+1)  < c:url is the way to do it
All those `c:url`'s in the JSP is a bit messy. But another major advantage of `c:url` is that it automatically does the "URL rewriting" for the case the session plays a role in the whole story and the client has cookies disabled. If this is the case, I would go for it as well.
  Make use of the HTML      base      tag. It denotes the    base URL    of all relative URL's used in the final HTML output. If you set it with      HttpServletRequest#getContextPath()     , then ALL links in your page will be relative to the    http://example.com/contextname    URL, which is    http://localhost:8080/Projectname    in your case.       Note that you should    not    start the relative URL's with    /   , otherwise they will lead to the domain root, e.g.    http://example.com/yourlink   .     By the way, links doesn't need to be placed inside a form. Also HTML tables ought to be used for tabular data only, not for other content.    Learn semantic HTML as well   .  
(+1) didn't know that tag existed.. :)
thank for the tip, i was just trying to create a navigation bar which looks aligned perfectly, for this purpose i used the table. Now will work on the hint u provided.
  When external files like css and js not getting loaded then use the absolute path. Example:    
2 ways to get page url in java applets, what's the difference and/or benefits of each?
  the two ways that I know to get the page url are: 1.through the applet class: Applet.getDocumentBase()     2.through the netscape javascript library: JSObject.getWindow(this).eval("location.href")     First, what are the differences between those two methods and advantages of each,     Secondly, can users trick the url of those methods in someway? to make the applet think it's embeded in    http://www.stackoverflow.com/index.html    for example?  
  If you look at the code for    Applet.getDocumentBase()    (sun's implementation of    AppletStub   ), you'll see that it is also getting the location using    JSObject   . But it has a lot of additional code around it, and is guaranteed to work across all browsers and setups. So better use    Applet.getDocumentBase()    
does this mean that the JSObject is included in the JDK? in other words no need for me to ship it with my applet package?
part of plugin.jar - so yes, included.
+1 Vendor-recommended ways are preferred above other ways.
  JSObject is buggy in some browsers (IE and Safari especially). Applet.getDocumentBase() is a lot safer.  
but Applet.getDocumentBase() uses JSObject in the background to achieve that according to Bozho
  The answer is easier than you think.     You should use    Applet.getDocumentBase    in case the implementation varies between platforms or JVMs, or is altered at a later date.  Just because JSObject is the way that Sun's JVM gets this value doesn't mean that, say, IBM's JVM works that way.  
  Pretty sure users could spoof it:       Download your .jar and host on a server controlled by the user     Change their etc/hosts file so that stackoverflow.com points to the IP of their server     Configure the server to serve requests for stackoverflow.com     Visit the page on the server with the applet embedded       And the applet will believe it's on stackoverflow.com. There is probably a simpler way to spoof it though!  
Exactly. there isn't a sure way to prevent spoofing.
What about getCodeBase(), can that be spoofed too? I mean, in the example you mentioned.. will Applet.getCodeBase() return stackoverflow.com ?
Yes, it certainly could. What in particular are you worried about? Someone stealing and rehosting your applet?
As The Feast said, to really answer this for we need to know why you're worrying about spoofing?
GWT AdsManager not displaying ads on map
  Here's my code:       I tried doing this before the map is added to a panel, after a map is added to a panel, and any other way i could think of that could possibly make sense.  My publisher id is "google" because I havent been approved for adsense yet, but ive tried taking a real publisher id and i got the same result.     What is confusing me a bit, is that the AdsManager isnt a widget, so I cant choose where i want to place it on the map.  Ive read that this is actually how it works, but ive seen sites like    http://mapper.acme.com/    where the ads are not in the typical bottom right corner.       Can someone PLEASE enlighten me on what I am doing wrong because this is driving me mad!  Thanks!       I still have no answer.  I am now trying with a legitimate publisher ID so I know that an invalid publisher id wasnt the reason for my frustrations.  Anyone have any ideas?  
Is it possible that I absolutely need a valid publisher id before the box shows up on my map?
  Are you using firefox? If yes, do you have adblock on? Or any other adblocker on your browser?     Its also possible that the region you're looking at doesn't have any ads... Try zooming into a place like New York...  
Javascript working in firefox but not IE or chrome
  I am using gwt with google maps api and i have a set of tabbed infowindows.  in one of them i want to have a recent tweets script running.  it works fine in firefox, but it comes up as blank in ie and chrome.  heres the HTML that im putting in the tab:       does anyone understand why this may be happening?  thanks!  
Why are you using the `blogger.js` version of their widget?
Because it formats the text how I want it (times since tweet linking to tweet status page).  could it be causing a problem?
  That HTML is, forgive me, horrible. You have quotes in the wrong places (for example in the style attribute of the div), have    body    inside a table inside a tr inside a td (it should be the other way around). It's highly probable that Firefox manages to do something with it, but other rendering engines give up and display nothing. The HTML should look like this:       Which translated to Java is:    
i know it looked bad, my fault.  ive tried writing the code 30 different times today and that was the last way i tried before i decided to come here and ask.  i edited the op. one thing you suggested that i thought may work was changing the double quotes to single quotes in java, but it didnt work.  i have written the code so that it works in ie and chrome when i open it as an .html, but when i make it java, it only works in firefox.  any ideas?
Well, if this didn't help, I'm not sure I can help. I thought it was an HTML issue.
  To add to what Javier Badia wrote, your best chance of making web pages that work in all popular browsers is to (1) use validators to make sure that your HTML and CSS adhere to standards, and (2) Understand which bits of the standard make certain browsers cranky.     There are many validators.  I favor    Marc Gueury's HTML Validator plugin for Firefox    because it validates every page brought up without you having to ask it to.  In the lower right corner of the browser window it puts a green checkbox or a red X right where it'll catch your eye.  Having it "always on" makes it pretty much painless.  Also, it validates offline, so there's no need to submit your page to an external server.  Depending upon your needs, there may be other HTML validators that will suit you as well or better.     I won't recommend a CSS validator because I haven't found the good one yet.  
  If this is part of a GWT project is it happening locally? If so the problem is most likely just due to restrictions on local files place the project on a remote web server and it should work fine.  
How can I run JavaScript code at server side Java code?
  I want to run JavaScript code at the server side. I want to manipulate result returned by JavaScript inside my Java code. How can it be done?  
@Luca: I agree entirely, as my "I'm not sure exactly what you mean"-type answer will attest. :-)
-1 Is this question related to Java or to JavaScript?
@BalusC thanks for the edit and clarification.
  You execute the JavaScript with    Rhino   , a JavaScript library for Java.  
  You need a JS runtime inside of a Java runtime. One way to do this is    Rhino    
  The other answers are correct that    if    you want to execute Javascript on the server side, you'd need to evaluate it in the context of a JS runtime.     However, I'm not convinced that this is exactly what you're asking.  I think there may be a chance that you want to run some "typical" JS functionality that relates to how the page is displayed on the client's machine or interacted with on the client - and that will    not    be possible to run on the server side.     As a concrete examples:       If you want to run some kind of algorithm in JS without porting it to Java - say, you have some opaque Javascript code that generates a particular sequence given a seed - this would work fine if you run it on Rhino on the server.     If you want to invoke a Javascript function while    creating    the page, rather than while it's running - say, to get the user's colour depth/screen resolution and change how the page is generated - then this will    not    be possible from the server, as there    is    no client at this point to query.       Broadly speaking, any Javascript that involves    document    or    navigator    or even any elements of the page itself, is likely to fall into the latter category.     If you really need to get information about the client environment in order to control how the page is rendered, this must be extracted from the client on the previous page, and encoded into the request (as query parameters or form data).  These parameters can then be read directly on the server and used to control the output.     Remember that when your code is running on the server side, you're creating a page (ultimately a bunch of HTML, CSS and JS) that will be sent to the client once it's done - at this point there    is    no client yet and so you can't interact with them.     Apologies if I've got the wrong end of the stick on this one, but this type of question is typically asked by people who haven't grasped the client/server separation.  
A very thorough answer to an unclear question.
  The start is clearly to look into    rhino   .      I think you will find this 3 links very useful          JavaScript EE, Part 1: Run JavaScript files on the server side           JavaScript EE, Part 2: Call remote JavaScript functions with Ajax           JavaScript EE, Part 3: Use Java scripting API with JSP         You can also have a look to    helma              Helma is a server-side Javascript environment and web application framework for fast and efficient scripting and serving of your websites and Internet applications.            Helma is written in Java and employs Javascript for its server-side scripting environment ...    
Link 1 is broken.
I think the content can be find here: http://public.dhe.ibm.com/software/dw/web/wa-aj-javaee/wa-aj-javaee-pdf.pdf
  If you want to call JavaScript in browser from Java on the server, look at the FeRMI Framework.  It does so over WebSockets.  
Creating Javascript History like Object in Coldfusion
  I want to create a History Object for my Website, It should be Similar to Javascript history object.     I want to use this Object to Creating Previous/Next nevigational Links for my Website. The Problem with Javascript History Object is that it is based on the Window object, not a website specific. And Using this Object clicking on "Prvious" link can cause Leaving my website.     What should be the best possible way to Create a History Object in Coldfusion?  
where's the question?
You want to prevent people from using the history buttons to leave your site?
Yes, If I can prevent peoples to Leave my Website, this will be Great.
I think there are laws against that. (If there are not, there should be ;)
  Preventing people from leaving your site is a lame and annoying thing to do.  Do you have a good reason for doing it?  
Because this Previous link is within my site. And user wants normally wants to navigates within the site with next and Previous links.
  Looking at global question that sounds like "How can I make the user surfing    my    site better?" I can three important answers:       Obvious navigation aka main menu. Especially, when you have a lot links there. Solutions may vary: plain links, tabs, drop-down menus etc.     Using    breadcrumbs   . People should be able to go level up (though it is not always "Back" action).     History. Implementing custom history can be useful, say for e-shop -- to show previously viewed stuff in reliable and handy way.       Please note that history is the task #3, not 1 or 2. Reason of explaining all this is that your History    should not    serve for #1 (definitely) and #2 (can be sometimes).     Basically history can be stored in two ways: for current session only (for any user) and between sessions (typically for logged in users).       Simplest    way to implement the first way is to use ColdFusion sessions. When creating session (onSessionStart() if using Application.cfc) initialize the container, I would use the array.     Consider the following samples:       When user opens new page (even in new tab -- which starts new browser history) -- push the page information into the container (   page    should contain link and kind of label at least):       Finally, somewhere in page template loop over this array and display the links:       Obviously, if you want to show the Previous/Next links, you should modify the way of storing the history, maybe keep current page position (in array) too -- to pick the previous and next elements. Though as a    User    I would not find such feature much useful.     Finally, if you want to store the history between sessions, simply write this dataset in the database identified by user id (fk) and restore it when user logs in.     Please remember, that it is    highly recommended to use locking    when reading/writing.  
Using locks when reading session variables is pretty much no longer needed, and unless you're dealing with race conditions locking for writing to a session you don't need to lock then, either.
  Are you using a link/button on your site to act as the back button?     If so, you could use javascript to hide the "Previous" link/button in your site if the history-1 doesn't contain your domain name.       edit    - you can't use the history object because of security but you can use document.referrer.    
Yes, I am using the Link on my site. Can you please write me an example?
How to access 3rd Party cookies in the Browser?
  How to access  3rd Party cookies in the Browser ?  
see http://stackoverflow.com/search?q=third+party+[cookies]
  You cant. For security, cookies are limited to access by the domains which posted them.  
But How the browsers can access them?
Why is JavaScript called JavaScript, since it has nothing to do with Java?
  Since JavaScript is not derived from Java, why does it have "Java" in the name?  
http://www.w3schools.com/tags/att_script_type.asp
Ben: I can't figure out what your link has to do with my question.
It says the attribute can be "text/ecmascript". Gives what others said a bit of context.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript#History
Why is Java called Java, which is the name of island, If it has nothing to do with island?
Technically, it is called Ecmascript, but no one really says that.
ECMAScript is the standards name for it. If you wanted to be super-specific, you'd call it that to make sure everyone knew what implementation you were talking about, but in general Javascript is perfectly fine.
For the same reason Apple Jacks is called Apple Jacks even though it doesn't taste like apples
"Java is to JavaScript what Car is to Carpet"
Am I having a deja-vu or what? Wasn't the exact same question with close to the exact same answers here posted sometime back?
Marketing. I would say marketing.
Hamburgers and ham are both foods that are meat products, just as JavaScript and Java are both programming languages with a C-influenced syntax. But other than that,  they don t have much in common and are fundamentally different right down to their DNA. its just when Netscape and Sun came together they gave LiveScript the name as JavaScript, so it can play a role as complementing to Java in browser. https://twitter.com/SteeLx/status/433855540360249345
  Java is to Javascript what Car is to Carpet.          "The language's name is the result of a co-marketing deal between Netscape and Sun, in exchange for Netscape bundling Sun's Java runtime with their then-dominant browser."             -       http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript#History      
I doubt you'll get the same results as Greg with this :-) http://stackoverflow.com/questions/245062/whats-the-difference-between-javascript-and-java
We must read the same books :)
Sorry but I'm tired of hearing that platitude every time this issue comes up.
You're too well-read, Cletus ;) But in all fairness, the OP likely has not heard it, and as such will benefit in a way that you won't from it.
+1 To that point, I am well versed in JavaScript and had never heard that comparison before.
@Vinko Vrsalovic: Greg read it from here : http://stackoverflow.com/questions/58640/great-programming-quotes/58693#58693
  It was a marketing ploy cooked up by Netscape since Java was the big buzz word at the time.  Originally it was called LiveScript.  Which was probably a better name in hindsight.  
+1: it was a marketing ploy.
  It was originally called Mocha, renamed to LiveScript, and then renamed to JavaScript.  JavaScript itself is a trademark of Sun Microsystems -- the official standard is just called    ECMAScript   .     Further confusing the matter, Microsoft has decided to call their version JScript.  JScript is not at all related to J++, a Microsoft-implemented Java whose name undoubtedly is designed to cause confusion with C++.  
  From an    interview    made to its creator    Brendan Eich   :       InfoWorld:    As I understand it, JavaScript started out as Mocha, then became LiveScript and then became JavaScript when Netscape and Sun got together. But it actually has nothing to do with Java or not much to do with it, correct?       Eich:    That s right. It was all within six months from May till December (1995) that it was Mocha and then LiveScript. And then in early December, Netscape and    Sun    did a license agreement and it became JavaScript. And the idea was to make it a complementary scripting language to go with Java, with the compiled language.  
So there was some connection. I wouldn't have anyway believed it was coincidence!
  We were obsessed with naming things after coffee in the 90's.       I know... what were we thinking?!    
Except Starbucks. Ironically.
    Marketing reasons   .  
  The language has similarities to C-adjecents to which Java counts aswell.     It was first named Mocha but later renamed to LiveScript and finally to JavaScript due to marketing reasons. To accomodate the Java trend during that time there was an interface between LiveScript and Java called LiveConnect. This connection was intented to be expressed with the new name "JavaScript".  
Any evidence that this connection was the reason?
  The project was originally called    Mocha   , then renamed to    LiveScript   , and finally to JavaScript when Netscape and Sun did a license agreement. The idea at the time was to make it a scripting language complimentary to Java.       My Source   .  
+1 for a timely answer (years ago :) ) with a link refernce for source.
  It's just a historical mistake. (and according to me there's no real valid reason to name JavaScript as JavaScript)     They have similar names because market was crazy about these new technologies when they were starting to come out (actually Netscape was about to include Java inside Netscape) and they accidentally chose to change LiveScript name to JavaScript. I wrote accidentally because they have nothing in common (apart from being two programming languages) so there's no a real, analytic reason for this similarity.  
  JavaScript, was originally named Mocha, later it was renamed to LiveScript, and then to JavaScript.     The LiveScript to JavaScript name change came because Netscape and Sun did a license agreement.     The language was then submitted for standarization to the    ECMA International    Organization. By that time, Netscape didn't allow the use of the "JavaScript" name, so the standarized language is named    ECMAScript   .     JavaScript isn't actually an open name. Now it's a    trademark    of Sun (now Oracle).     There still a lot of confusion, some people still think that JavaScript, JScript, and ECMAScript are three different languages.     ECMAScript is the "standards" name for the language.      JavaScript is technically a "dialect" of ECMAScript, the Mozilla Foundation can use "JavaScript" as the name of their implementations (currently present on the    Rhino    and    SpiderMonkey    engines).     In the early days, Microsoft decided also to do what Netscape was doing on their own browser, and they developed    JScript   , which is also an ECMAScript dialect, but was named in this way to avoid trademark issues.  
This answer, while an interesting history of JavaScript's name, doesn't really answer the question of *why* it has "Java" in its name. Your other answer solves the question I was asking, which is why I accepted that one.
  At the time Javascript or Livescript was launched into market the Sun MicroSystems was busy with the java creation so they named it as javascript. Also it uses some basic construts of the java.  
Through Java, make a call to Javascript functions on networked device?
  I am doing device monitoring on a networked system. I need to know how to make Javascript calls on that device via its IP address to get certain status information (this device's status is only available through Javascript APIs, not SNMP, etc). I am working in Java.     ADDED: The specific device is an Amino set-top-box. It has what it calls JMACX: JavaScript Media Access Control Extensions API specification. It allows you within an HTML document to use that API to get MUCH information about the device (cpu usage, channel info, remote-control options, etc.). I need to get this information within a Java program for specific monitoring purposes.     Perhaps possible with HTTP requests?      Any input would be greatly appreciated.     Thanks,     Steve  
What do you mean by Javascript APIs in this case? Can you give us an example? Does the device have an embedded web server that spits out HTML pages that embed certain Javascript functions, or what?
^ Added information to post.
  Thus, it's essentially a webserver serving HTML pages? You could in theory use      URL#openStream()      to get an    InputStream    of any web resource.     But then you have a major problem with Javascript. It runs at the    local machine    only. You can eventually extract JavaScript functions from the HTML page with help of a    HTML parser    and invoke them with help of      javax.script      API, but they will be executed on    your    machine only (at least, the machine where your Java code is running), not on the remote machine.  
  I have been using Rhino in Java and it works well.  You should be able to load a Javascript API into a context, then create functions to use/call that API.       http://www.mozilla.org/rhino/    
Can you elaborate a little bit more on this? I have been looking at documentation on the web and seem to find little on using context. How would I use this to call Javascript on a networked device?
If you just need to be able to use and call javascript, then rhino is a good solution.  You load up the JS api, presumably in a JS file either locally or remotely, then you can call functions, etc in it. You may have to create some mock objects if the API assumes certain objects are present.
javascript framework for JSON communication and DOM manipulation?
  I am java developer,  (using Spring-MVC)   never worked much on javascript,   But I would love to have ajax features like auto-complete, ajax-form-validation, 'server-backed-pagination for catalog (or grid)' in my applications..   And there are lot of frameworks like Dojo, prototype, YUI, jquery, etc. etc.   so My question is..   which framework is best suited for my requirements?       Criteria        lightweight      minimal learning curve     application will return JSON     need to do auto-complete, ajax-form-validation, rating       Cheers, :)  
  The JS Framework that's the most popular nowadays    (which means it's easier to get support)    is probably    jQuery    -- and it should be OK for what you need, I'd say.     There's documentation available on the official website :         Main Page         Tutorials         And, of course, there are lots of people that will probably be able to help you here, on StackOverflow, if you're having difficulties --      jQuery      being the    8th    most used tag on SO     .       And you might also want to take a look at :         Plugins         jQuery UI      
If you plan to spend some time on SO, be sure to pick JQuery. It's all the rage around here :)
thnx. one of my friend suggested also for JQuery.. but I wanted to confirm.. :) but Now I think I should go with it.. :)
You're welcome :-) Have fun ^^
When everything's said and done, jQuery **is** a good (actually, great) starting point. The learning curve is, really, non-existant (I can't decide whether it is good or bad).
  I would suggest you spend a little time checking out JQuery -    http://jquery.com    and JQueryUI    http://jqueryui.com       Why?  Not only does it satisfy 90% of your requirements, but also has a thriving community of plug-ins.     Now.  Is JQuery the "only" solution?  No.  The Microsoft AJAX client (not server) library is decent too.  
I should also add that the Microsoft client-side AJAX scripts are not IE or Win32 dependent - its plain old javascript/http.
  For some of this you may want to check out    DWR   . It automagically exposes Java objects as Javascript objects and looks after the client/server communication. For some of your requirements other libraries may be suitable, but DWR is useful if you have a Java backend.      Take a look at the    examples here   .  
hmm.. DWR looks great.. really good.. but I already have used Spring MVC and exposing POJO's is already done.. And I think DWR takes care of complete communication.. thanx.. :)
Does Spring MVC look after exposing POJOs as Javascript then ? I didn't know that. If I'm reading that correctly, can you provide a link/more info ?
    ExtJS    is a little heavier than jQuery, but the UI widgets it offers are very nice.  It supports AJAX, JSON, auto-completion, and form validation, and the    demos    will quickstart your app.  I like ExtJS in part because of the very attractive UIs I can create with little or no help from a graphic artist.  Finally, see    this discussion    to see how we marry ExtJS with Spring MVC.  
hi, I know ExtJs.. actually used GXT(GWT version) for enterprise app, but its really heavy, and have ready-made components, also it follows MVC i think, and MVC in javascript is complex/hard for me :)
Are you using Spring?  MVC in Spring is really easy: controllers are the C, the M (model) is a simple Hash, and the views (V) are the JSP pages (or PDF pages or Excel spreadsheets, or HTML, or... JSON).  The controller does a bunch of work - interacting with business objects and the database - gathers interesting results, places it into a hash (M), and passes the hash to a view (V).  The view extracts results from the hash and renders HTML (or JSON or XML or...).  As far as ExtJS being heavy, I think it's worth its weight in (...wait for it) time saved developing.
  You should also check    Dojo    which is a framework for client side scripting. The difference between JQuery and    Dojo    is that JQuery uses plugins but Dojo already comes with everything you need. Also benchmarking shows that Dojo is usually faster then JQuery on most browsers (I can't find it right now but you can ask around at the #dojo channel on freenone).      If you are still interested in JQuery I suggest you to    read this   .  
How to execute random Javascript code on a web page?
  I'm using htmlunit to test some pages and I'd like to know how can I execute some javascript code in the context of the current page. I'm aware that the docs say I'd better emulate the behavior of a user on a page, but it isn't working this way :( (I have a    div    which has an onclick property, I call its    click    method but nothing happens). So I've made some googling and tried:       Seems like I have to instantiate the script first, but I've found no info on how to do it (right). Could someone share a code snippet showing how to make webclient instance execute the needed code?  
  I don't know the    JavaScriptEngine    you're quoting and maybe it's not the answer you want, but this sounds like a perfect case for      Selenium IDE     .          Selenium IDE  is a Firefox add-on that records clicks, typing, and other actions to make a test, which you can play back in the browser.    
I also highly recommend Selenium RC
  You need to call    executeJavaScript()    on the page, not on    webClient   .     Example:       prints "Google". (I'm sure you'll have some more exciting code to put in there.)  
  In    TestPlan    using the HTMLUnit backend the google example is:    
Dynamically generated javascript not executing in Chrome or IE, works in Firefox
  I'm using the google maps API with GWT to create a tabbed infowindow with tweets inside one of the markers.  the source of the tweets is dynamically generated.  heres the java code:       I have identified the problem, but I need a workaround.  What happens is that the script will be executed in firefox, while IE and Chrome will, for some reason, avoid running it.  Here is the html that is generated:       if i copy this code into a plain html file and run it in google chrome, it will work.  if i open in IE, it will work, but only after i give it permission to run active content.  if i open in firefox, it works fine without any problem.  does anyone know how i can get this code to work without asking for permission in all the major browsers??  Thanks!  
  The HTML you generated worked fine once posted on a remote web server the permission IE is asking for is most likely only related to locally hosted files. Try posting on some web site and it should work fine for you.     So that would mean posting the whole GWT project because the test environment if local may be causing the problem.  
  The answer to my problem was that Infowindow content is static once it has been set.  For some reason, firefox is able to execute script running inside an infowindow, but theres no way to modify how other browsers interpret those scripts.  
How to use java.util.Observable from Javascript?
  I'm building a Drupal module that integrates the "FileCatalyst" Java FTP applet with a standard Drupal form. I'm implementing a hook to submit the form when a file transfer completes. Currently I'm polling the applet with a setTimeout() call, but this method can miss changes of state if they happen too fast.     However, the FileCatalyst object inherits from java.util.Observable   so it's apparently possible to register an observer for the applet and get notifications of state-changes. I'd like to know how to implement this.     Can I use the document.FileCatalyst.addObserver(obj) function from Javascript to get these state-changes sent to a Javascript object? What do I pass to addObserver? How do I construct the observer? What methods does the observer need to implement in order to receive state-change notifications?  
  I can't fully answer your question, but I've read that there is a dark side to java.util.Observable (see Head First Design Patterns).  Namely, the Observable must be worked into the class hierarchy.  Would the PropertyListener in java.beans suit your usage scenario?  If so, there is a lot of sample code that shows how to set up the PropertyListeners for a plain old JavaBean.   
  Every Java applet is also a Javascript object offering the same methods as the Java object. Thus you can invoke addObserver() from Javascript. The object that you pass as a parameter  should be a Javascript object offering the same methods as those specified by the Observer type (assuming addObserver() takes a single parameter of type Observer).  
  You need to use the redirect URLs provided in fcupload.js.  For example:     var callurlaftertransfer = "javascript:submitForm()";     Then you would have the submitForm() function make a call like document.myform.submit();     Hope that helps!       Chris  
That's a good answer and addresses the polling issue perfectly. (Don't know why I didn't do it that way in the first place!) The larger gist of my question is related to a spec I've been given to implement. The client already implemented a page with a form, plus the FileCatalyst applet below the form. They want the form to submit when files finish successfully uploading, and they want the file list to be sent along with the contents of the form. Unfortunately the callurlaftertransfer method doesn't include this data. (see next comment...)
There's another FileCatalyst setting, "postURL" which includes the list of uploaded files, but it requires a page reload and would skip the form submission. I was hoping to get the list of files uploaded prior to any page reload, so it could be sent along with the form. (Embedding the applet in an iframe is one hackish solution I had considered.) In the end I convinced the client to change the spec. Namely, show the applet by itself as Step 1, capture the uploaded files from postURL, and then show the form as Step 2, which will then have the postURL information in a hidden field.
rapidly create webpage front end
  Exposition:     I'm familiar with C/C++/Scheme     OpenGL. I have this client/server program written in Clojure that serves as a todo-list/wiki/forum. The server is written in Clojure. The client is written in Clojure and uses SWT.     Question:     I want to rapidly create a web client version of this. What is the best way to do this? (I Don't use anything complicated, like OpenGL rendering in SWT; just standard widget stuff) I just want something accessible via Safari/Firefox -- and no, I don't want to run it as a Java Applet.     Thanks!  
  Adobe Flex/Actionscript is a pretty good approach for applications that require rich user interaction.  
  Take a look at Ruby on Rails, allows you to create very basic CRUD applications quickly. Personally I am looking more a Grails a very similiar framework but for a Java platform      Ruby On Rails -    http://rubyonrails.org/       Failing either of those PHP is a good alternative and very quick to get started with   
  Google Web Kit allows writing of Java code (since server is in Clojure) to create AJAX api.  
Is a colon safe for friendly-URL use?
  We are designing a URL system that will specify application sections as words separated by slashes.  Specifically, this is in GWT, so the relevant parts of the URL will be in the hash (which will be interpreted by a controller layer on the client-side):       Some sections may need additional attributes, which we'd like to specify with a    :   , so that the section parts of the URL are unambiguous.  The code would split first on    /   , then on    :   , like this:       Of course, we are doing this for url-friendliness, so we'd like to make sure that none of these characters which will hold special meaning will be url-encoded by browsers, or any other system, and end up with a url like this:       Is using the colon in this way    safe    (by which I mean won't be automatically encoded) for browsers, bookmarking systems, even Javascript or Java code?  
Maybe it is a good idea to specify (more clearly) that you use the URLs at client-side only? Since a lot of the answers (as did mine) seem to assume you are going to send the URL to a server using HTTP.
Edited to add clarification that use of the fragment is happening on the client-side.
I'm curious: after 10 months, has this url scheme worked for you? I'm considering using the same scheme.
@Jonathan Swinney, Unfortunately I've moved on from this project (and company), although the answers here satisfied me that it is the way to go. If I were to start a new project, I would use this scheme, but I would also be sure to use `#!` to indicate that the pages are stateful - see http://googlewebmastercentral.blogspot.com/2009/10/proposal-for-making-ajax-crawlable.html (This proposal has been adherred to by heavy AJAX users such as Facebook)
  I wouldn't count on it. It'll likely get url encoded as    %3A    by many user-agents.  
*Many* user agents?
@arbales: Yes. Some less compliant user-agents will leave non-compliant urls unadorned.
  From    URLEncoder    javadoc:          For more information about HTML form   encoding, consult the HTML      specification   .            When encoding a String, the following   rules apply:                 The alphanumeric characters "a"   through "z", "A" through "Z" and "0"   through "9" remain the same.          The   special characters ".", "-", "*", and   "_" remain the same.          The space   character " " is converted into a plus   sign "+".        All other characters are   unsafe and are first converted into   one or more bytes using some encoding   scheme. Then each byte is represented   by the 3-character string "%xy", where   xy is the two-digit hexadecimal   representation of the byte. The   recommended encoding scheme to use is   UTF-8. However, for compatibility   reasons, if an encoding is not   specified, then the default encoding   of the platform is used.            That is,    :    is not safe.  
  Colon isn't safe.    See here    
That page doesn't motivate why they're not safe. The referenced [RFC2396](http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2396.txt) does not say it should be escaped either. Also, the converter script provided does not encode it (in Chrome 9 anyway).
  I don't see Firefox or IE8 encoding some of the Wikipedia    URLs    that include the character.  
Opera also keeps the semi-colon, but counting on such behavior is not a good thing to do
Renesis is talking about the URL fragment and not the URL path.
Wikipedia was one of my thoughts when writing this question.  Is its use of colons technically invalid/unsafe then?  I commonly see ( and ) in Wikipedia URLs encoded, but never the colon, which left me a bit confused.
The Wayback Machine has a : in many of its links - e.g. http://web.archive.org/web/20080822150704/http://stackoverflow.com/
  Better to avoid it. A comma is preferable, for example:    example/key,value/key,value       Or a slash and calculate which ones are keys and values.  
But according to http://www.blooberry.com/indexdot/html/topics/urlencoding.htm, the "," falls in the same class as ":".  Is there some practical decision by browser-makers to treat one or the other any different?  Or even to ignore encoding on both in the path or the hash?
Well picked up. I made an incorrect assumption based on ":" having a special purpose in URLs (delimiting usernames and passwords) and "," not having one as far as I know (that, and the fact that commas are used on several major sites, for example: example.com/1234,5678)
  It is not a safe character and is used to distinguish what port you connect to when it is right after your domain name  
  I recently    wrote    a URL encoder, so this is pretty fresh in my mind.            http://site/gwturl#user:45/comments         All the characters in the    fragment part    (   user:45/comments   ) are perfectly legal for    RFC 3986    URIs.     The relevant parts of the    ABNF   :       Apart from these restrictions, the fragment part has no defined structure beyond the one your application gives it.    The scheme, http, only says that you don't send this part to the server.         EDIT:       D'oh!       Despite my assertions about the URI spec,    irreputable    provides the correct answer when    he points out    that    the HTML 4 spec restricts element names/identifiers   .       Note that identifier rules are    changing in HTML 5   . URI restrictions will still apply (at time of writing, there are some unresolved issues around HTML 5's use of URIs).    
I think you are on to something, can you explain this a little further?  Not sending this to the server is not an issue, as we are using GWT.  I'm just not sure I'm clear on the syntax specified by the section you quoted.
But `:` is a gen-delim, not a sub-delim.
The semi-colon is legal for a pchar, so whether it is in sub-delim or gen-delim is not an issue
@bobince - `:` is in `pchar`, which is in `fragment`, so `:` is allowed. @Renesis - Wikipedia has an article on ABNF http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ABNF You are basically looking at a list of allowed characters, where `/` means _OR_. I haven't done any GWT programming, so I don't know how it uses the fragment part of URIs.
One last question -- do you have any insight into the real-world application of this specification?  Does this mean browsers should/will ignore (skip the encoding of) the `:` in the fragment?
It's important that people realise this is the correct answer; everyone else is saying it isn't valid, but *it is after the '#' symbol, so it is*.
@Renesis - I had forgotten about the HTML 4 limitations - see this answer: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2053132/is-a-colon-safe-for-friendly-url-use/2053640#2053640
  Colons are used as the split between username and password if a protocol requires authentication.  
  In addition to McDowell's analysis on URI standard, remember also that the fragment must be valid HTML anchor name. According to    http://www.w3.org/TR/html4/types.html#type-name            ID and NAME tokens must begin with a   letter ([A-Za-z]) and may be followed   by any number of letters, digits   ([0-9]), hyphens ("-"), underscores   ("_"), colons (":"), and periods   (".").       So you are in luck. ":" is explicitly allowed. And nobody should "%"-escape it, not only because "%" is illegal char there, but also because fragment much match anchor name char-by-char, therefore no agent should try to temper with them in anyway.      However you have to test it. Web standards are not strictly followed, sometimes the standards are conflicting. For example HTTP/1.1 RFC 2616 does not allow query string in the request URL, while HTML constructs one when submitting a form with GET method. Whichever implemented in the real world wins at the end of the day.  
@irreputable - yes, you are quite right.
  MediaWiki and other wiki engines use colons in their URLs to designate namespaces, with apparently no major problems.     eg    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:Welcome    
Most relevant answer. We all know that what's in the specs has little to do with reality in web development. You're not going to get a much better guarantee of "safety" than "one of the top 10 websites in the world does it".
Why do C languages require parens around a simple condition in an if statement?
  It sounds stupid, but over the years I haven't been able to come up with a use case that would require this. A quick google search didn't reveal anything worthwhile.     From memory there was a use case mentioned by Bjarne Stroustrup but i can't find a reference to it.     So why can't you have this in C languages:       I can accept the "we couldn't be bothered adding support to lexer" reason, I just want to figure out if this syntax breaks other language constructs. Considering how many whacky syntax features there are in C/C++, i hardly think this would have added much complexity.  
Because that is how the language is defined?
I think it can become a problem with a bunch of nested if / else blocks.
Good question. And cx0der: *Why* is it defined like that? Many languages allow you to omit the parentheses. Is there a case in the C family of languages where it'd actually introduce ambiguity into the parser? I can't think of any.
Whoever removed javascript tag - `if val` is invalid in javascript too.
@jalf compiled languages don't allow that. I have come across only interpreted languages that allow you to do that.
@cx0der: Many compiled languages do allow it. Interpreted vs compiled has **nothing** to do with it. The problem is the syntax of the language, not the way the code is executed *after* it has been parsed
I think you mean parenthesis, not brackets?
@cx0der Being compiled is no excuse to not allow something like that. if (x) and if x could easily be compiled to the same thing.
As an expression is a statement. You need some way to mark the end of the condition expression and the first statement inside the if block (which could be another expression). There are several possable solutions one of which is to use () around the condidition.
use colon as a marker for the end of the condition on single statement. just use the open curly bracket as end of condition marker for multiple statements
Some other languages use 'then' to mark the end of the condition; the keywords act like parentheses.  Dennis Ritchie chose not to use a keyword to separate the condition from the action, choosing instead to use parentheses.  Some languages have keywords to introduce all statements; such languages do not need the parentheses because again, the keywords mark the start of the next statement so the separation of condition and action is unambiguous.
I vaguely remember using a C compiler in the late 90s that had a non-standard extension - you could use `if !(x  & &  y)` as shorthand for `if (!(x  & &  y))`, and that did not create syntactic ambiguities.
  I think a better question would be "why would we want such a thing?" than "why don't we have it?". It introduces another otherwise unnecessary edge case into the lexer, just so you can avoid typing 4 extra characters; and adds complexity to the spec by allowing exceptions to a simple syntax that already supports all possible cases just fine. Not to mention toes the line of ambiguity, which in a programming language doesn't have much value.  
A lot of languages allow you to omit the parentheses and reducing noise always aids clarity. Pretending that it's some kind of insurmountable obstacle is a bit silly. The last part is more interesting. can you *think* of any cases where it'd introduce ambiguity? Otherwise your answer seems to be nothing more than "parentheses were always good enough for ME! Don't come here and suggest that my language isn't perfect"
Of course it adds complexity. The compiler has to figure out whether the programmer gave it a simple condition (i.e. a bool) or something more complicated; for example, what if the user has a statement 'if someObj doStuff()' where someObj has a huge function for implicit conversion to bool?
I agree that C++ isn't the right language to be introducing such a feature.  That said, I also think that we are underusing our natural "language instinct" in much of the code we write.  Case in point: the previous sentence has only two quote marks and one comma for punctuation...but we both parse it the same in our heads.  My suspicion is that there are many contexts where programming could leverage the latent shared understanding which allows us to do that.  Lately I've been looking into exactly that question, it's been thought-provoking.
@dauphic: If you've ever written a parser, you'd know that it only introduces complexity if it creates any ambiguities where none existed previously. For this answer to be meaningful, it'd have to show such an ambiguity. If someObj can be implicitly converted to bool, then the compiler will do that, just as if there'd been ()'s around it. As long as that is the only way the code can be parsed, it'd add zero complexity.
@Hostile Fork. Unncessary boiler-plate is bad, but too much expressive flexibility can also be bad, even if it does not introduce ambiguity. You are writing code here, not poems. There is no need to make the compiler unreasonably complex (that could easily lead to bugs), and you have to think about the maintenance programmers as well. With a language of more flexibility (such as Perl), you can easily create write-only code, that becomes hard to figure out.
@Thilo: If your coding isn't an art form on par with poetry, perhaps your sights are set too low. :)  I'll compare with handwriting recognition: at the extremes are full OCR vs. entering your letters in binary ASCII.  A compromise is something like Palm's Graffiti, which introduced exaggerated letterforms that people learned quickly and that computers could recognize without error.  In my view programming languages tend to the extremes instead of asking both human and compiler to meet in the middle at a "sweet spot" of minimum complexity.  Perl is not my ideal in this respect (can't stand it).
@jalf - "... reducing noise always aids clarity ..." is patently untrue. As a simple counter-example, why do you think some folks add parentheses that are strictly unnecessary?  Because **for some people** the redundant parentheses aid clarity!!
@Jaff, do you want C to have Python's `pass` statement?
  If there are no brackets around expressions in    if    constructs, what would be the meaning of the following statement?       Is it       or is it       (of course these are silly examples and don't even work for obvious reasons but you get the point)       TLDR: Brackets are required in C to remove even the possibility of any syntactic ambiguity.    
ooh yeah, that seems likely. +1
  or `if ( x * x * b = NULL ) ;` will look fine to the parser until it tries to match functions to the operations.
This really isn't a good answer to the question. C strictly dictates the order of operations for operators. If that were valid syntax it would be evaluated as if(NULL) because * takes precedence over = and the return value of an assignment is the value assigned, and there is no logical reason why a compiler which didn't require brackets around a conditional would split the statement after the if (look at python syntax).
Chris: The point is, the LR parser needs to be able to decide where the condition ends and where the conditional block begins. Different languages have different approaches, some require brackets, some newlines and some have the "then" keyword. You just can't get around that. Show me _one_ language that doesn't have some mechanism for separating the conditional expression from the conditional block some way or other. If you still don't believe me, try to build your own language syntax with yacc and you will see all the issues that will come up.
@Chris: even if there is an unambigious way to parse this, it would be much less obvious, and difficult to read, hence a bad idea. For example, I always put in extra parens with nested and/or/not conditions, even if they are not necessary. Saves everyone time thinking about how the implicit priorities would work out.
This kinds sounds to me like allowing this will need to make `if` statement almost like an operator with its own precedence rules.
@Chris: so you just arbitrarily decided to use a greedy algorithm and use the longest possible expression. That will end badly (pun intended). Python delimits the condition by the newline. Languages that don't require parens, like ML, don't alias symbols between unary and binary operators.
If someone adds a generalisation to this post, something like "In order to disambiguate condition from statement" for fatheads like myself I will accept it as an answer ;)
Thanks for hte bold. I**definitely** get it now ;)
can't you solve this by disallowing eliding braces? e.g. `if( foo ) bar;` becomes `if foo { bar; }`.
Logan Capaldo: Yes, that would work too.
C has an ambiguous grammar, parentheses in conditionals or not. Consider: `a * b;` What does it mean? A simple multiplication that throws away the result, or a declaration of a pointer? The grammar is ambiguous and the compiler needs context to resolve it. I think the answer to this question is "because that's the way it is, that's how Dennis Ritchie liked it".
That same argumenmt can be applyed to a+b*c or any other chain operation. a+b*c is that (a+b)*c or a+(b*c) I know what the precedence rules says but they work equally on the given example. I'm sry but your answer is incorrect
@Rune FS: This is isn't about operator precedence, it's about semantics. Read all the comments here for more details.
@DrJokepu I agree this post is about semantics and that's exactly my point. I don't believe the reason for the if() is semantics. C/C++ is extremely vague when it comes to semantics. Take a statement like this A=B=C it's absolutely impossible to state beyond any doubt what the result is. There's nothing that guarantees that A == C is true, you can't even count on A or B actually being assign. So it would seem very weird at one place to use semantics as the arguement and basically ignore it in the rest of the language.
  I can't think of any specific cases where omitting the parens would actually cause any ambiguity, but there is probably a corner case somewhere.     It might be related to locally declared variables (as in    if (bool b = foo())...    where without the parentheses, it'd be harder to determine if    bool    is a type declaration or the the entire condition. In the latter case,    b    would then be the first token of the if-statements body, rather than part of the condition.  
Except that allowing a variable definition as part of an expression was not part of the original C language.
@R Samuel: True the example given doesn't apply to C
    I think you are confusing "brackets" with "parenthesis"     This is possible in  C:             Not all "C" languages force the parethesis usage and and leave braces as optional.   Go ( Issue) programming language does exactly the    opposite   .      The correct way to write that same sentence in Issue9 would be:       That way the following is not valid:       It should be one of:       or    if x {        *x*b=NULL;    }     Here the braces remove the ambiguity created by the lack of parenthesis.   
Great, this just reaffirms the notion that it's either braces or the parentheses.
....Or as in Python ( I know it is not from the "C" family but ) using the colon to separate the sentence. It could be: `if x * x : b = None`
  I can give at least one example why in C there are paranthesis around conditions,      For example consider the following       The above will call do_something() for ever in an infinite loop     The reason the parenthis are required is because the following would be ambiguous       while 1 ; do_something();     does that mean, evaluate do_something and do nothing in the while loop? or does it mean the same as the code sample above?     I guess that showes one way why in the C syntax parenthis are required around condition evaluations, and by extending the same syntax (for the sake of consitency) it is extended to the if statements.     Discalaimer: I could be completely wrong and the reason behind having the pranthesis could be completely different, but at least I've shown one example of how it can be useful  
What about "while 1 do_something();"? Removing the parenthesis removes the ability to express an infinite loop by omitting the condition, but it doesn't remove the ability to express an infinite loop.
Actually I think that needs to be while(1) do_something(). For me using gcc 4.0.1 I get _syntax error before  )  token_ for your code.
thats true, but your syntactic rules should not allow ambiguos situations like I showed above, so either enforce () around condition statements or enforce {} around while/for/if/else body. C chose to do the first, or go the python route (ie: white space is important). From the outset C doesn't care about whitespaces so they had a choice between mandatory() or mandatory{} they chose the first.
@ Micheal, thanks for pointing that out
Adding the 1 has kinda made your example redundant, has it not? I can't see any ambiguity anymore.
You could just do: while do_something() || 1;
  Tell me how to interprit the following:       Looks silly but...       or       or perhaps "x" has an overloaded operator then...       Edit:     As Martin York noted "++" has a higher precedence which is why I've had to add the operator overloading tidbit.  He's absolutely right when dealing with modern compilers up until you allow for all that overloading goodness which comes with C++.  
Post increment has a higher priority. So the last one. A better one is if x + b; Is this if (x+b) {;} or if (x) {+b;}
or a more commonly recognizable one would be `if x - b`, since the unary minus is more familiar to most than unary plus.
"interprit" has two 'e's in it.
  One other possible thing to keep in mind: C was created at a time when tape storage was common, so random seek or going backwards through the current file or even other files was not really feasible (which also explains why you have to put some stuff (i.e. forward declarations) before other stuff (i.e. usage of functions) even though the compiler should be able to figure it out on it's own).  
Tape has nothing to do with it. The emphasis in compiler design has always been on left-to-right processing in linear time. Plenty of other languages have forward-declaration rules, not just the tape-era languages.
  i would love that syntax too, but to avoid parsing ambiguties, must be of this form:      for multiple statements:       for one statement:    
  It's simply a means of ending the condition clause of the statement. Other languages use other means such as a "then" or in Python "if condition    :(Followed by a return)   " (The : always get me in python I keep leaving them out and get errors than aren't immediately obvious as a result.)     Computer grammars typically like some unique mechanizism to identify the different parts of a statement or expression.  It's no better or worst in this respect than any other language.  The dangle else issue with C/C++ is an example of ambiguity from a gramatic standpoint and has to be handled as a special case to insure correct operation.  (i.e. It adds extra work for the compiler implementor.)  
  unless you want significant white space you need to be able to tell when the condition ends in some languages it's () around the condition in some it's the keyword then an if like the one given in the answer      if x * x * b = NULL could be one condition always evaluating to false, one assigning null to *b in the case of (x*x) the compiler has no way of knowing when the condition ends and the following operation begins. So there needs to be an explicit "back marker" for the compiler to know when the condition ends. In C(++), Java, c# and other languages it's () marking the condition in F# it's the keyword 'then' and in still other languages it's a newline/indentation  
  Because C allows one to do :       As you can see above flexibility gives rise to ambiguity as others have shown.  
You can write the same thing in Java if 'x' is Boolean, and Java requires the parentheses just like C codes.  Doesn't answer the question in any way.
  The fundamental reason is that C and friends don't have a 'then' keyword so they need another way to delimit the condition-expression. Languages that do, like Pascal and PL/1, don't need the parentheses. Same applies to 'while', where Pascal, PL/1, etc have a 'do'.  
Actually, if the compiler could now where one expression ends and the next one starts, this would be enough. (But as shown by DrJopeku's answer, it isn't.)
@Pa?lo Ebermann Of course it would be enough, and that's what the 'then' keyword provides. Absent a 'then' keyword you run into possible assignment statements and an arbitrary amount of lookahead is required. From the grammar point of view C's '(' is redundant, and ')' is functionally identical to 'then'.
Validate JavaScript-Code
  I use Java's ScriptEngine to execute JavaScript Code. I use the Invocable Interface, so that I can use the Script Code as a normal Java Object implementing a Java Interface.     If the JavaScript Code        is invalid     does not follow the interface (missing methods, wrong return type, throws an exception etc.)       I get an internal Exception from Rhino or an UndeclaredThrowableException while executing the code. Both are RuntimeExceptions, which are not "allowed" to catch.      Is there a way to validate the code before executing? Or do I have to break the rule here and catch RuntimeExceptions? That would work for me, but what is the most elegant way?  
       Is there a way to validate the code   before executing?       No. JavaScript is loosely typed, has no concept of interfaces and is interpreted on the fly.     Without designing your own validation framework, the best you can do is check it for syntax errors with    JSLint   .  
  A few years later... for others who stumble on this: You can use strict mode which adds more runtime checks by using    "use strict";         http://ejohn.org/blog/ecmascript-5-strict-mode-json-and-more/       Some code editors provide realtime validation (syntax...)  
  closure compiler does all kinds of validating based on annotations.       https://developers.google.com/closure/compiler/docs/js-for-compiler    
how to use java to get a js file and execute it and then get the result
  How can I use java to get a js file located on a web server, then execute the function in the js file and get the result and use the result in java.     Can you guys give me some code snippet? Great thanks.  
  You can use the scripting engine built into Java:       Here is a more elaborate    example   .  
  There's three steps to this process:       Fetch the JS file from the server.     Execute some JS function from the file.     Extract the result.       The first step is fairly simple, there are lots of HTTP libraries in Java that will do this - you effectively want to emulate the simple functionality of something like wget or curl.  The exact manner in which you do this will vary depending on what format you want the JS file in for the next step, but the process to get hold of the byte stream is straightforward.     The second step will require executing the JS in a Javascript engine.  Java itself cannot interpret Javascript, so you'd need to obtain an engine to run it in -    Rhino    is a common choice for this.  Since you'd need to run this outside of Java, you'll likely have to spawn a process for execution in Rhino using    ProcessBuilder   .  Additionally, depending on the format of the Javascript you might need to create your own "wrapper" javascript that functions like a main class in Java and calls the method in question.     Finally you need to get the result out - obviously you don't have direct access to JavaScript objects from your Java program.  The easiest way is going to be for the JS program to print the result to standard out (possibly serialising as something like JSON depending on the complexity of the object), which is being streamed directly to your Java app due to the way you launched the Rhino process.  This could be another job for your JS wrapper script, if any.  Otherwise, if the JS function has observable side effects (creates a file/modifies a database) then you'll be able to query those directly from Java.     Job done.     I hope you realise this question is    far    too vague to get full answers.  Asking the public to design an entire system goes beyond the point where you'll get useful, actionable responses.  
  There are plenty of examples on the web of how to    download a file from a URL   .     Suns version of the JDK and JRE includes the    Mozilla Rhino    scripting engine.     Assuming you have stored the contents of the javascript file in a string called 'script', you can execute scripts as follows       The result will be extracted from the engine and stored in the 'result' variable.     The is a tutorial on    scripting in Java    that might be useful.   
help neede for implementing a button action in html page
  sir,     problem analysis:     when i m clicking a submit button of my html form the function related to the button is called and it does its work.after completing the work a mail notification is sent which is consuming too much time.after that a confirmation message is displayed on the same html (without using ajax i,e page is refreshed).     my question and need:     i want to avoid the user by clicking the submit button a number of times in confusion during the waiting period of sending mails.so i m thinking to disable the button after it is pressed once.     1) How to do it?     2)can you please suggest any other technique to achive this goal without disabling the button?  
  I belive that this will work:    
`onclick="this.disabled=true; this.value='please wait...';"`
  You could also simply hide the button, again using javascript in the onclick event, but this time add a style, such as "display:none", and then the button will not be displayed for the user to click on at all.     Note: This may be disturbing to some users. Developer discretion is advised.  
loading java applet on DOM load
  I searched for it a lot but probably I am searching wrong strings. A Java applet is feeding live bits into my pages, java applet accesses the input fields on my page and places the information       and then it calls a javascript functionon the page say LivePicker() and then it simply picks up a value       The problem I am facing is, this works fine but sometimes in firebug console it give errors like LivePicker is not defined, while LivePicker would be working perfectly fine on the page while sometimes it will give F1 is not defined, while my clock would be working fine. All of these errors appear at page load.     Java applet places the data sequentially, it first place the data and then calls the js function to process it. That works perfectly fine on test pages with minimum HTML and JS but when I integrate it to my application, which uses a lot of components from YUI and a lot of my own JS code (which is now minified obviously), it give these errors. One thing I would like to add, before minification, these errors were a lot likely but after minification of JS and CSS, the page load time is reduced to half and the appearence of these errors are reduced to half as well.     I am suspecting this is due to, on page load, applet tries to manipulate the DOM which is not ready yet. Is there anything, which could stop the applet to wait until the DOM is fully loaded? I tried window.onload and onDOMReady function of YUI, they seem to make no effect at all.     Can any one help please?  
Just to add, java applet is placing data after every 1 second, thats why after the page load, I guess, in next cycle, applet gets the input fields or the function, and errors dont appear.
  The browser should delay executing the window.onload code until after the DOM tree is created and after all other external resources are fully loaded and the page is displayed in the browser.      The window.onload should work. Your applet must be running before the onload event.     As a test, can you do the following and see if it changes anything:       create a hidden "set" field in the page with value "false";     on window.onload set the value for the "set" field to "true";     in your applet check the "set" field;     only start doing things in your applet if the "set" field is defined and has a value of "true";       One other thing, don't do a busy waiting in your applet to test for the "set" field. Your applet should take no action if the field is undefined or false. You can reactivate it on window.onload if needed.  
Thanks for your detailed reply. I am trying to see what happen if I do that but just a quick question, this hidden input element will also be in DOM, what if it hasn't get loaded and applet tries to load it.
I don t remember exactly what happens in that case; you either get an exception or you get null instead, both cases meaning that the field is not defined. Another thing you could try (which I think should be simpler) would be to let the applet load and do nothing. Then, on window.onload have a javascript function in your page that calls a method on your applet to start it.
I tried that, it seems to be some other problem within applets and I am suspecting that child threads are not getting terminated. I have scaled down the code, now going step by step to find the problem in applets. Please see my other thread http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2134028/terminating-java-applet-thread-on-page-unload If you can help me in that.
  you could try using setTimeout to delay execution       https://developer.mozilla.org/en/DOM/window.setTimeout       or the jQuery library could also help out with the ready event on the document object       http://docs.jquery.com/Events/ready#fn    
  This problem was resolved using dpb suggestions in slightly different way. This blog post I wrote should explain every bit to those who are facing similar problem.       Controlling Java applet from Javascript especially if you make round-trips to the web page from applet    
How to access external JAR files from JavaScript using Rhino and Eclipse?
  I'm using Mozilla Rhino to write a JavaScript server application. I would like to include the HttpClient classes in my project to easily access the web, but I can't figure out how to configure my Eclipse project to get Rhino to load the HttpClient JAR file.     I have added    js.jar    (from Rhino) and    httpclient-4.0.1.jar    to my project's build path in Eclipse, and in my run configuration I have specified the Main class from Rhino's js.jar (which it finds), and in my JavaScript file I basically do this:       It fails saying this:       How can this be so hard? I must be doing something fundamentally wrong.  
  Have you made sure that    httpclient-4.0.1.jar    is in the class path when you run the program?  
Well what's the difference between build path and classpath? I assume build path is at compile time (or something) and classpath is at runtime? I've added my `httpclient-4.0.1.jar` to a classpath folder, and if I write pure Java (instead of JavaScript and run it through Rhino), it finds the HttpClient library perfectly.
  I don't see why your code shouldn't work if your classpath is set up correctly. I would suggest to try to load the class explicitly to see if it is really available, otherwise you don't seem to have it in you classpath:       Rhino should be able to load to classes from external jar files without problems or extra work.  
  Okay, the problem seemed to be that I had multiple references of the    httpclient-4.0.1.jar    file, both in my classpath and in my project's build path. Other than that, I seemed to have left out a couple of dependencies that    httpclient-4.0.1.jar    depend upon. After cleaning out my classpath and adding all the necessary jars to my project it now seems to find everything as expected.     Thanks for your help guys!  
Best java api for facebook connect
  What is a good Java api for Facebook connect implementation. something that is atleast moderately documented and is still active in terms of releases.     Can I achieve everything with javascript API too?      Thanks  
Which ones have you tried already?
Did you check: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1360060/facebook-api-and-facebook-connect-using-java
@Andersen - I haven't tried any, but did try to google some, without any success with some predominant lib. @pascal- Yes I did look. The lib that user who asked the question mentioned seems to be broken as responded and lib that was suggested req. lot of other libs to work. since it was asked back in sep i was wondering if there is something better that has come along.
  You should be able to achieve everything you need with the Javascript API.  Note that the REST API responses can fluctuate wildly in response time and Facebook will cut your page off at 8 seconds even if it's their servers that are slow.  Your best bet is to render is simple page and then pull stuff in via AJAX.     When I posted this response I was discussing the legacy JavaScript API:    https://developers.facebook.com/docs/reference/oldjavascript/       Facebook has switched most of their platform over to their new Social Graph API which is more stable, robust, and covers the latest features.  
This link now appears to be dead :-/
Updated. Thanks, Axel.
  you can use restFB (http://http://restfb.com/) that is in active development and easy to use, if you need server side java api  
firefox a href # symbol causes setter not to be called
  Morning all,     It early Monday morning and I'm struggling to understand why the followng line works in IE and not in FF.       In both IE and FF the URL when you hover over the button is...       When the button is clicked, the following method is called...       The URL that docuement is sent to is (in both browsers)...       The problem is that in IE the method on the struts action 'setSetCode()' is called, but from FF its not! If I remove the hash ahref above FF works, but IE doesn't (href="#").     I've tried changing the    '   ModeEnabled='    to    '   amp;ModeEnabled='   , but no success. I've looked on google and the struts forum, but no success.     I'm tempted to rip out all the ahref's and replace them with Dojo buttons and see if that works, but before I do, I just wondered if anyone could shead some light on why.     My guess is that ahref is the wrong thing to use, but why?     If anyone could help me understand why though it would be appreciated.     Thanks Jeff Porter     EDIT: The return false is part of the solution. The problem seems to be that the url..       has the      amp;    inside it, if I go to this url as it is, then it works in IE, but not in FF.     if I change both to be         then it works in IE     FF.     if I change both to be      amp;    then it still works in IE but not FF.     Any ideas?     Note:      Seems that struts 2.0.9 does not support the property    escapeAmp    on the      s:url    tag:          By default request parameters will be separated using escaped ampersands (i.e.,      amp;   ). This is necessary for XHTML compliance, however, when using the URL generated by this tag with the      s:property      tag, the    escapeAmp    attribute should be used to disable ampersand escaping.       soultion:    return false    on the onclick and upgrade to new struts + set    escapeAmp    param. else,    url = url.replace("   amp;", "   ");   .  
  Try returning false from the javascript method       This should stop the javascript onclick event reaching the browser.  
Not unless you `return setMaintenanceMode(...`
    onclick="setMaintenanceMode(false); return false;"       The onclick is working, but then the href does immediately, as well. You need to return false from the click handler to signal that href should not be followed.     IE likely guesses at what you mean, and does the wrong thing.  
I think you are both correct, but that is not the complete solution. Please see my new comments in the question.
If the ampersand appears in your HTML, it needs to appear as the HTML entity. If it's instead in a separate file loaded with script src="", it should not be so escaped. I think there's some case in between for XHTML with CDATA blocks, but that wouldn't work in a tag-soup parser. For consistent results, put the code with the ampersand in a separate, non-HTML file.
You could also try to use a different character than the ampersand for separating fields in the query string. The semicolon (;) is a common second choice. Most big, generic web applications understand what it means, because it's in the RFC (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Query_string#Structure and the references therein)
       the URL has the      amp;    inside it, if I go to this url as it is, then it works in IE, but not in FF.       I doubt it? ?it shouldn't work in either. It's not browser-dependent, but server-dependent.     The string    a=b   amp;c=d    is split into parameters by the server framework. Servlet requires that only         be used to separate parameters, so it will return    a   =   b    and    amp;c   =   d   . The latter parameter obviously won't be recognised by the application which is expecting    c   .     The HTML specification for various reasons strongly recommends that    ;    also be allowed as a separator, in which case you'd get    a=b   , a stray    amp    which without an equals sign would be meaningless and discarded, and    c=d   . So despite the mis-encoding of the ampersand it would still work. Unfortunately, Servlet ignores this recommendation.          By default request parameters will be separated using escaped ampersands (i.e.,      amp;   ).       Oh dear! How unfortunate. You shouldn't escape ampersands at the point of joining parameters into a URL. You should simply join the parameters with a single ampersand, and    then   , if you need to put the finished URL into an attribute value of text content, HTML-encode the entire URL. Struts's default behaviour is simply wrong here.     In your case you are not outputting the URL to an attribute value or text content, you're writing it into a string literal in a script block:       In a script block in old-school HTML, HTML-escaping does not apply. (In XHTML in native XML it does, but let's not think about that yet.)     However, you still do need to think about JavaScript escapes. For example what if there were an apostrophe in the setMaintenanceMode link? It would break the string. Or if somehow you had a      /    sequence in the string it'd break the entire script block.     What you really want to be doing is making the URL (   without    any ampersand-escaping), and then use a JavaScript string literal backslash-escape on it. Best would be to use an existing JSON encoder which will turn any Java value into a JavaScript literal, putting the surrounding quotes in for you too if it's a string. You can also on most JSON encoders tell it to JS-escape the          and         characters, which means not having to worry about XHTML parsing if you decided to serve the page as XML in the future.          I'm tempted to rip out all the ahref's and replace them with buttons       Well certainly if you have a thing you click on that isn't a link to another location, but simply does something to the page via script, then that's not a link really, and you'd be much better off marking it up as a      button      or      input type="button"     , and using CSS to restyle it not to look like a button if you don't want it to.     However (again), this all seems rather pointless, as at the moment you are replacing the behaviour of a link with behaviour that just like a link only not as flexible. What's wrong with simply:?    
Why GWT? Advantages and Trade-Offs of Using This RIA Framework
  I'm new to stackoverflow and have been reading through a bunch of the "highest voted" questions for GWT. Several of these questions talk about the pitfalls or problems with GWT. In  the articles:    Which Javascript framework (jQuery vs Dojo vs   )?    and    Biggest GWT Pitfalls?   , some posters seem to suggest that GWT is not lightweight enough or that there are better alternatives that may be used. Do most of you feel that there are problems with GWT that have not been fixed with GWT 2.0 -- which would make you inclined to suggest using a simpler framework for a new project?     To some extent, shouldn't GWT be somewhat future-proof (since you don't have to worry about it changing drastically from release to release and since it is backed by Google)? I realize that the answer to this question depends greatly upon what you want to do or what you wish to make. I am looking at this from the perspective of starting a new web application that will eventually be used by millions of users.  
I'll add http://stackoverflow.com/questions/523728/why-isnt-google-web-toolkit-more-popular, http://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/aqsxq/does_anyone_actually_use_gwt/ and http://www.cforcoding.com/2009/10/lost-in-translation-or-why-gwt-isnt.html
  We have a GWT app with a bunch of Selenium acceptance tests. I thought (like you) that it would surely be safe to upgrade GWT from 1.7 to 2.0. And it was - mostly. The app still worked the same for "human" users, but the selenium tests all broke. There's a newer version of Selenium in preparation (at alpha release, with many UnsupportedOperations), but if we want to stay with GWT 2, it seems we have to give up some testability. So be careful about "future-proof" assumptions.     Our decision to use GWT was made months ago, after comparing YUI and ZK. I'm still glad we chose GWT. The level of support on the GWT website and the general quality of the documentation seems very high.     GWT does module splitting and provides performance profiling which help to counter arguments that it is not lightweight enough.  
  Trade-offs     Let's start with all the trade-offs I can come up with:         you're using Java    - it means that your webdevs' proficiency in javascript won't come in handy as much (it will be helpful if you dabble in JSNI)       problems with indexing by search engines    - IMHO, this should be the biggest disadvantage of using GWT, or pure JS web applications in general. Since the content, layout, everything is created "on-the-fly" with JS, the search engine will only see a very short HTML page and that's that - you have to take care of this somehow yourself (for example, using   cloaking   ). Google has finally   started to work on a solution for this   , however it doesn't seem to attractive to me.       Update:      Google has    finally addressed    this problem. However, I'll leave this as a trade-off because making the application crawable still requires more effort than in other frameworks. At least now we have a "standard" to follow and don't have to use some dubious techniques (like    cloaking   ).     it's easy (especially for a beginner in GWT,    especially    when that person comes from a HTML/JS background - without too much object-oriented experience) to go all "wow, these 'object' things are so cool, let me make all my      div     s into separate objects, that will make the code all nice and neat". Of course, I'm over-exaggerating it, but you get the point - it's easy to imagine that an unexperienced programmer could put a full-blown    Widget    with lots of    Handlers    in every cell of a    FlexTable   ... And then (s)he'll waste a lot of time wondering why the application feels sluggish ;)    tl;dr: it's easy for beginners in GWT to make their applications "bloaty" by writing code that seems in line with what the documentation/samples/common sense ;) suggest         That's all for the trade-offs I can think of - if anyone wants to add something, please add comments.     Advantages     Now for the advantages. I'm gonna skip some like    internationalization   ,    cross-browser compatibility    for free, easy integration with other Google's libraries, etc, because they are kinda obvious and easy to grasp. I'll try to focus on the less emphasized but still very important features:         the compiler    - now, most people I've talked with about GWT doesn't realize just how amazing this part of GWT is - for starters try    this presentation from last year's Google IO   . The compiler has the view of the whole application.       So it    can    optimize such a something like this:       ..to this:       And then obfuscate this and minimize. Additionally, this is done in such way, that makes the resulting files more compressible via gzip.         you're using Java    - whether or not you like Java, there's no denying that it's a very good object-oriented   language   , that allows to write easy to maintain and testable code (something I don't think is possible to such extent with JavaScript). If you follow some    good guidelines   , you'll arrive at a code that is understandable not only for you, but for other developers as well. Another thing worth mentioning is that all those nice design patterns, etc, that work in "pure" Java, work here too.     one nifty thing about GWT is that you get    performance gains and new features for free    with almost every new release of the framework. Since it's Java compiled to JavaScript, it takes only a recompile to benefit from the optimizations made in the new compiler or get new features (like the    accessibility support    introduced in GWT 1.5).       debugging    - it is worth mentioning that you can (and should :)) debug your GWT apps just like any other Java application, using your IDE's debugger. And, in general, the Java debuggers I've seen are more advanced then their JavaScript counterparts.       UiBinder    - while it's still not "perfect",    UiBinder    let's you design your Widgets in an easy and intuitive way using XML (as opposed to the pre-2.0 way that forced you to do this in Java). Mixing HTML and GWT's Widgets has never been so easy and fun ;)       working with CSS    - GWT has always, of course, embraced CSS, but with the introduction of GWT 2.0 (and UiBinder) they took it to another level. Let's look at a CSS file from a "normal" web application - hundreds, if not thousands of lines, hard to navigate, some styles are redundant but it's hard to notice that, some aren't used at all, add to this mix the need to please IE6/7 and you get yourself a nightmare. With GWT, you can instruct it to perform the similar tasks it did for the JS code for CSS - so it will prune all the unused CSS styles, merge where appropriate, minimize and obfuscate the class names,    and many more    (including conditionals, constants, etc in your CSS files). You are encouraged to keep your styles in their respective UiBinder's XML files - makes organizing and finding them so much easier. Last but not least, you get an error when you misspell a CSS style name - less hassle then trying to do the same via Firebug or a similar tool       OOPHM    - Out of Process Hosted Mode, with this, they fixed one of the biggest disadvantages of GWT - now, you get to use Hosted Mode in the browser of your choice (if that choice is Firefox, Safari, IE or Chrome, but at least you can use any version you want). The design of OOPHM also allows you to do cool stuff like run Windows in a VM, and connect from the IE there to the Hosted Mode running on the host OS (Linux/MacOS) - no need for hacks, copying files after every compile, etc     you get to say /??w?t/ a lot ;) (this is a quote from one of the presentations on    Google IO 2009   , IIRC)     many more.. Take a look at the videos from    Google IO 2009    and browse through the    GWT wiki    to see more stuff that makes creating RIA easier and less error-prone with GWT :)       In between     Depending on your experience and/or preferences, the following might be an advantage (it is to me, but at times it's a PITA ;)) or not:         the out-of-box    collection of Widgets    is kept small and simple   . Now, if you're coming from some full-blown GUI framework (be it web or desktop), you might be surprised at how relatively small the number of Widgets GWT has. But according to the GWT's devs, it's kept like this on purpose - the basic Widgets are all the tools/"blocks" you need to build your own, customized to your needs Widgets. The alternative is to provide a variety of all-purpose Widgets that have to support many use-cases... The result is a kinda sluggish UI (at least IMHO - check out for yourself projects like    SmartGWT    or    Ext GWT   ). That is to say, the GWT Widgets are quite nicely written - for example the      SuggestBox      has a lot places where you can override the default behavior with your own - you can specify a different way to display the suggestions (     SuggestBox.SuggestionDisplay     ), fire a custom action when the user selects a suggestion (     SuggestBox.SuggestionCallback     ) or just provide a custom      SuggestOracle      for feeding the    SuggestBox    with      Suggestion     s...         Bottom line is - try GWT, chances are you'll love it and will never want to write in pure JavaScript ever again ;)  
Well said friend!
Awesome post, thanks!
More info on making AJAX apps crawlable: http://code.google.com/web/ajaxcrawling/docs/faq.html
Thanks, Matt, for reminding me of that - I've updated the post :)
I'm not sure that indexing an application's screen is relevant.
@Christopher: depends on what your application is/does - if it's an ebook reader, like Google Books, then yes, it's very important. If it's an e-mail reader, then definitely no ;)
So good explanation. Thank you.
  We are building small (~2K Java classes) to medium (~6K) enterprise systems on regular basis using GWT since version 1.3 was out. I understand that there is a different set of problems to solve in public site having thousand clicks per second, but I will try to tell about our biggest problems in GWT 1.x and how GWT 2.0 approaches that.       Browser Memory Leaks    IE6 leaks with GWT are tremendous, IE7 leaks can be compensated with periodic page refreshes, IE8 promises some stability in this area, but not yet widely accepted in enterprise. And yes, even valid GWT code without native JS calls leaks memory in certain cases. Especially when UI is complex and you are doing a lot of Panel.clear() calls. There are no useful tools to identify the real cause of the leak at the moment. Unless you know how to hack into browser itself.       Rendering Performance    you have to write your UI code very carefully, especially when building commonly used custom widgets. Deep JavaScript, CSS and DOM knowledge is still required. There is a lot of materials in internet on this topic. You need to know how and when to get down from GWT widget level to direct DOM manipulations.       Size of Downloadable Content    it was impossible prior to 2.0 to split module onto different downloadable pieces without having "hard" navigation built in the application. But that will clear JavaScript context and require window reload.       UI Developers Mind Shift    Experienced UI developers just don't know Java and OOP. Experienced Java developers don't know CSS,JS,HTML and don't like building UI. UI Binder goes into right direction.     We have done migration 1.3 -> 1.5 -> 1.7 and it was always just a recompile and a couple of CSS fixes. GWT 2.0 removes a lot of deprecated code and initial approaches (project structure, GWTShell) and may be tricky to migrate quickly. But all features looks promising and its good that Google have dropped legacy code at some point. I am not sure about the stability of 2.0 though, as we have not used it yet in real projects.     Hope this helps.  
Regex in GWT to match URLs
  I implemented the Pattern class as shown here:   http://www.java2s.com/Code/Java/GWT/ImplementjavautilregexPatternwithJavascriptRegExpobject.htm       And I would like to use the following regex to match urls in my String:       Unfortunately, the Java compiler of course fails on parsing that string because it doesn't use valid escape sequences (since the above is technically a url pattern for JavaScript, not Java)     At the end of the day, I'm looking for a regex pattern that will both compile in Java and execute in JavaScript correctly.  
  The pattern itself looks fine, but I guess, its because of Backslash escaping.     Please take a look this    http://www.regular-expressions.info/java.html            In literal Java strings the backslash   is an escape character. The literal   string "\\" is a single backslash. In   regular expressions, the backslash is   also an escape character. The regular   expression \\ matches a single   backslash. This regular expression as   a Java string, becomes "\\\\". That's   right: 4 backslashes to match a single   one.       So, if you reuse your Javascript regex in java, you need to replace    \    to    \\   , and vice versa.  
It's worth noting that even if you use regular expressions in GWT via Java, you should still take into consideration whether they would work in JavaScript (the syntax can sometimes be different): http://code.google.com/docreader/#p=google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5 &s =google-web-toolkit-doc-1-5 &t =DevGuideJavaCompatibility. Thus, the best way is, like Anurag pointed out, to handle regular expressions via JSNI.
  You will have to use JSNI to do the regex evaluation part in Javascript. If you do write the regex with the escaped backslashes, that will get converted to Javascript as it is and will obviously be invalid. Thought it will work in the Hosted or Dev mode as thats still running Java bytecode, but not on the compiled application.     A simple JSNI example to test if a given string is a valid URL:       There may be other irregularities between the Java and Javascript regex engines, so it's better to offload it completely to Javascript at least for moderately complex regexes.  
After I posted this I realized this would probably be the better route to take.
  I don't know exactly how this would help but here is the exact function you requested in Javascript. I guess using JSNI like Anurag said will help.       Like what @   S.Mark    said, I basically took the "java" way of doing Regular Expression in Javascript.     In Java, you would just done it the following way (see how the expression is the same).       Hope this helps. PS, this Regular expression works and even validates sites pointing to localhost:port) where port is any digit port number.  
All of these answers are excellent and I appreciate the help a lot. The business rules are to allow the users to use urls in their text where they can type notes for something. We then go over that and convert the links to hyperlinks (wrapping them in the anchor tags simply), stripping other html then displaying the text as HTML. So I actually think we'll even modify these regexs to not require protocols. Thanks again for the help!
I just did the same thing....Check my final solution here: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2099892/extracting-1-or-more-hyperlinks-from-paragraph-text-in-javascript-using-regular-e
Color Logic Algorithm
  We are building a sports application and would like to incorporate team colors in various portions of the app.       Now each team can be represented using several different colors.       What I would like to do is to perform a check to verify whether the two team colors are within a certain range of each other, so that I do not display two similar colors.     So, if team 1's primary team color has a value of rgb(255,0,0) (or #FF0000), and team 2's primary color is similar, say rgb(250,0,0), then we would choose a different color for one of the teams.     If possible, what approach could I take to perform the check?     Thanks  
  I would use 3d distance between two colors where x,y,z are R,G,B values.     Take a look at this Perl Library:       http://metacpan.org/pod/Color::Similarity::RGB       This is easy to implement yourself.     Just make sure that (R1-R2)^2 + (G1-G2)^2 + (B1-B2)^2 >= threshold^2  
I have to admit that this worked quite well for computer vision, but I am not really taking anatomy into account with this answer.
Yeah, I'd say for how similar two colors LOOK (rather than how similar they ARE), I'd use pgras' algorithm.  Human eyes are far from perfect:  we're more sensitive to green than red or blue, our brightness perception is logrithmic, etc.
    Wikipedia    has details on a number of algorithms which can be used for this.     There is also this previous StackOverflow question:    Finding an accurate  distance  between colors    
  Here is a    theoretical explanation         And the algo in C:    
+1 for great link, code (though OP asked for Java)
are the rgb values normalized to the interval 0..1 or regular values int he range 0..255?
It would be great to add a note how this algorithm compares to the techniques described in Wikipedia's [color difference](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_difference) article, eg. CIEDE2000.
  From an algorithm viewpoint, this is fairly simple. Each color represents a point in a 3D space, and the difference between colors is the distance between those points.      Presumably the point here is to ensure that the colors are visibly different. If that's the case, deciding on the minimum distance is probably going to be fairly difficult. The problem is that (at least for people with normal vision) some differences are easier to see than others. For example, most people are more sensitive to small differences in shades of green than equally small changes in shades of red or blue. There are algorithms to take this into account, but they're based on average human vision, so none of them is guaranteed to be precisely correct for any one person.     Just for fun, you might want to take a look at    X-rite's online color vision test   .  
That page almost made me puke
well, a point in 3D-space is a simple point of view and i disagree, but i give +1 for the color vision test link
  Most answers for this question will suggest calculating the distance between two colors when mapping the RGB values into a 3D space.  The problem with this technique is that two colors with similar hues, but different saturation or brightness levels may map further away from each other in 3D RGB space than two colors with different hues, but very similar saturation and brightness levels.  In other words, a blue and a green may be closer in 3D RGB space than two shades of a Red.  In this application, ensuring team colors differ, hue differences should weigh much more heavily than brightness and saturation.      So I would convert the color mapping from RGB to hue, saturation, and brightness levels, and then check just the hue values for sufficient distance.       Wikipedia has an explanation for converting RGB to HSV.       LiteratePrograms has some sample code.    
I missed the Java tag on first reading.  The java.awt.Color class has an RGBtoHSB method for the conversion.
That is sufficient if the OP has only half-a-dozen teams; but if there are 20 or 30+, then he **has** to take saturation and brightness into account. The link pgras gave claims their algorithm gives better results (which is of course subjective) than HSV-distance.
As the OP says, the goal is to compare just two colors at at time. I suggested this method is an alternative to try if the RGB distance methods give insufficient results. As I think more on this, comparing just hue values will give good results when comparing colors with higher saturation and brightness values, and fail when comparing colors with either low brightness or low saturation. An improvement to this method would be to check that at least one of the colors has sufficiently high saturation and brightness values before checking hue differences.
  Here is pgras' algorithm in Java:    
How Do You Implement an Editable Grid Control in Html/JavaScript that Binds to a Collection of Java Objects?
  Consider a simple POJO Java Object:       My application executes a Struts action and sets a Collection of these on the Http Request:       The action then forwards to a JSP page, and    this is where my questions centres   :         What is the simplest way I can bind this collection into a grid, such that is renders a table with three columns (a, b, c) and one row per object in the passed collection. A key characteristic I require, is that I can add a new field to the Java object and it requires no (or minimal) changes to the UI code, i.e. the object is being introspected and displayed so that I don't have D-R-Y violations in the UI?         How can I make the grid     editable, so that any changes to a     row are reflected back into a new (or the existing)     Collection of Java objects in the     request for use by other Actions     (e.g. to persist the changes)?         Many thanks in advance for your help, please let me know if you need further clarification.     Arun  
  There are tons of different ways you can achieve the above. But since you are already using Struts I would recommend stick to    Struts UI Tags    . It will make things little bit easy to start with  
Unless I am missing something, struts UI tags are good for rendering the kind of page in your link that represent the properties of a single object. I want to render an editable table (think Excel) on my UI where each column is a field of the object. I don't think there are any Struts UI tags for this?
You will have to use the iterator tag for iterating through the objects of the collection.  http://www.vaannila.com/struts-2/struts-2-example/struts-2-iterator-tag-example1.html  If you go through the Struts 2 documentation you will find lots of other helpful tags
  If you need to display only your data without editing it I recommend using displaytag, its a custom tag that is used to render tabulated data, and its highly customizable.     However, If you want to edit your data, I advise you to move to some javascript solutions,    dhtmlxgrid    is one good option, there are many many other solutions in javascript that you could use, however here you will be working with XML data and AJAX, this would be easier to you, and it will make your table more dynamic to changes. After mastering your chosen javascript-solution that best fits you, you could wrap it into a custom tag and generalize it ;-).  
What would you expect of a mobile development framework?
  we are planning to build a web based client side application framework. The main focus is to write native looking webapps using Java and compile them for your target platform. Our planned target platforms would be the iPhone and Android (on top of PhoneGap), Backberry and Palm WebOS.     Our goal is to create a decent framework and that's what this post is about. We want to know what developers would expect of such a framework and on what topics are more important than others. We also want to know if it would be more important to provide a UI-framework which really feels like a native app on the target platform (e.g. scrolling behavior) or to provide some decent APIs to use HTML5 and PhoneGap features, store and manipulate data etc.     What would you, as developers, really like to see in that kind of a framework? After all, you're the ones that will (hopefully some day) be using it. And most important: Would you use it?  
Um... if it's going to be platform-specific and client side, what exactly is the point of having it "web based"??  Web apps are generally pretty horrible to develop: lots of "organically grown" standards and languages, annoying limitations and incompatibilities, a protocol that is being streched *way* beyond what it was designed for... the only reason to go through all that (and learn all the frameworks that try to make it easier by abstracting away some of the complexity) is because it allows you to have more or less platform-independant apps that are accessible over the internet.
community wiki?
community wiki, indeed.
       Um... if it's going to be   platform-specific and client side       Our approach is to be as device platform neutral as possible.     As said before: Our goal is to write an application in Java and to compile it then for a specific target platform. It should also be possible to compile the same application    without any    (or at least as few as possible) changes in your Java-Code for    all    our supported platforms.     We choose to use "the web" as our runtime because almost all mobile platforms provide some kind of web environment on which we could deploy our apps.  
Hi, this is a Q &A  site, not a forum. If you want to answer Michael's comment, do it in the comments, not as an answer.
  Make the setup and default behaviors of components work right out of the box -- give them either a builder pattern so that the component is ready to be useful in one line, or constructors that contain sufficient amount of parameters to create a well-formed object.      Along these lines, every GUI component should have an adapter to take a variety of model based data structures. Pass it along, no-fuss, no-muss, and absolutely no boxing/unboxing.   
  I would like a good GWT framework for mobile plateforms (at least iPhone and android), with a native feel UI (ie : smooth scroll, fast click), and UI customization by CSS. I would pay for that !!  
  the bad thing about the webkit based mobile frameworks is they are not as smooth and fast as other applications. This is where all they stack. I would recommend you to write a JAVA Dalvik framework, which is easy to extend an use with a nice error handling and strong UI. It should definetly have it's own plugin pattern so the community can extend it if you are planning to go open source  
  My personal favourite would be something that would allow me to develop using the Widget Standard    http://www.w3.org/TR/widgets/    and then publish to app stores by wrapping the widget into a webview or similar. Opera Mobile, Samsung Bada, Symbian and now Android support the platform already..    http://labs.opera.com/news/2010/12/22/       This would include a barebones JS framework that could be Closure Compiled smaller, using only the methods/ parts of the framework I really used, to keep the size minimal.  
not display the button in jSP
  I want to hide and show the table row based on a condition. The id of my atable row is showhide2.     This is my part of code to use show/hide the row       But the button "View" not shows in  my application.I cant solve this.     This is the function used to hide the row       I guess problem is in my code which has the button "View"  
If you want to focus on the javascript try doing a view source on the page as it is rendered in the browser. That way it is easier to see the html and javascript as the nrowser sees it. Also use a tool like firebug to view the execution of the javascript on the page.
  In both if and else you set display to none, could that be it?  
i have removed display of none and checked.but still the View button is not showing.
Have you tried Vincents tip from above and view the rendered source in the web browser? To see if the input are there or if the group is Y.
  You could try adding any character in front of the input tag     e.g.       If the 'a' does not show then        is probably always false  
  From the initial  This is my part of code to use show/hide the row                                    style="display:none;"  type="button" value="View" id="btnview" name="btnview"   onclick="statusChange('view', 'add_userFrm');hide_menu('showhide2');loadDataForGivenDiv('add_userFrm');" class="button" style="width:100px"/>                            style="display:none;"  type="button" value="View" id="btnview" name="btnview" onclick="statusChange('view', 'add_userFrm');show_menu('showhide2');loadDataForGivenDiv('add_userFrm');" class="button" style="width:100px"/>         But the button "View" not shows in my application.I cant solve this.       The if(dTO.getStat() == 0){%> style="display:none;" >   %} as Anders remarked, you're probably forgetting        ?  
Server side browser that can execute JavaScript
  Is there any programming libraries available that will parse an HTML document, execute JavaScript and then allow me to navigate the DOM?  This needs to be performed server side, not client side. Any language will do, but Java, PHP, or Ruby are preferred.   
  PHP has    DOMDocument    for navigating the DOM. I haven't heard of anything for executing JavaScript.  
  Java has support for javascript with Rhino, also look at this page for server side javascript solutions:    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server-side_JavaScript    
  Have you tried    Bringing the Browser to the Server   ?  
+1, beat me to it ..
+1 Forgot about that one... On my Mac I'd just use Python's Applescript capability to run the JS straight on Safari though.
Links for updated community version: http://www.envjs.com/ and http://github.com/thatcher/env-js
  in java:    http://lobobrowser.org/cobra/java-html-parser.jsp       this is a a Javascript-aware, CSS-aware HTML parser     the most important feature in relation to your question: It is Javascript-aware. DOM modifications that occur during parsing will be reflected in the resulting DOM.  
  Start from    this post    and follow a links. Or just search for Rhino.  
Oh... same link as Luca Matteis gave... Sorry!
  For Java, be sure to check out    HtmlUnit    and    HttpUnit   .  
  PhantomJS does this and can be used with any server side language. See some integration modules below for NodeJS and PHP     NodeJS       https://npmjs.org/package/node-phantom         https://github.com/sgentle/phantomjs-node       PHP       https://github.com/diggin/php-PhantomjsRunner    
  There are now several projects that do a really good job of this:           PhantomJS    is a headless version of WebKit, and there are some helpful wrappers such as    CasperJS   .           Zombie.js    which is a wrapper over    jsdom    written in Javascript (Node.js).         You need to write JavaScript code to interact with both of these projects.  I like Zombie.js better so far, since it is easier to set up, and you can use any Node.js/npm modules in your code.  
How to scrape images from a web site with javascript and servlets
  I have a web page that has the following content (I've changed the URL in the src tag for privacy purposes, otherwise viewing the page source is identical):       The resulting page displays an image when viewed in a browser and I'm trying to scrape that image.  After I scrape the image I attempt to index the images (see www.tineye.com for the idea of image search engine) and store them.  If anybody knows how to scrape images from such web sites please let me know.     Note: the src does not contain ANY information about the image... it only calls the given servlet with a public key as the parameter.  What I've posted above is EXACTLY what I see when I click View->Page Source in my browser (Firefox). Of course I've changed the actual URL and the public key for privacy issues, otherwise everything is identical.     I've seem similar techniques used for some banners:    http://coldjava.hypermart.net/servlets/banner.htm    
The alternative would be to open the page in a browser, take a snapshot of the page and write screen scraping code to obtain the image.  I'm not sure if there is a simpler solution to my problem, but it would be great if there is one! :)
  The JavaScript is probably manipulating the DOM and adding an image. Therefore the image (.jpg, .png or .gif) should be somewhere inside the JavaScript file, and should look something like this:       You can use Regular Expressions to filter the path and filename out of the javascript code.  
OK, I updated the post to reflect what's going on.  When I'm in Firefox and I press View->Page Source then I'm shown the exact source code as shown above. I had originally modified the url a bit too much in order to protect some private information, but I've changed it to look more like what it looks in reality now.  There is nothing else in the page source, the 5 lines that you see above is all I see when I view the page source.
Have you tried downloading the html file with a download manager (not firefox) and had a look into the source?
@svens I have saved the page locally, I viewed the source in notepad++ and there is nothing different.  It's identical to what I see in firefox too.
Use firebug to inspect the DOM after the image is showing.  If its shown via HTML, you should see it there.  Then its a matter of writing some JS to find that DOM node.  (if its shown via flash/activex/etc then this approach won't work)
@Frank thank you VERY MUCH! After opening up the source code in firebug I was able to see the javascript code and I was able to figure out the variables required to get the image! Once I had the right tools, then all the other comments and answers made sense! :)
  Instead of saving a local copy of the HTML file, you should save a local copy of the JavaScript file to see how exactly it's adding the image to the HTML file's DOM.  That should let you figure out how to construct requests to get the images you need.  
Render JavaScript and HTML in (any) Java Program (Access rendered DOM Tree)?
  I know this kind of question must have been asked here before but by searching I didnt find a solution:     My question is: What are the best Java libraries to "fully download any wepage and render the built in JavaScript(s) and then access the rendered webpage (that is the DOM-Tree !) programatically and get the DOM Tree as an "HTML-Source".      (Something similarly what firebug does in the end, it renders the page and I get access to the fully rendered DOM Tree, as the page looks like in the browser! In contrast if I click "show source" I only get the JavaScript source code. This it not what I want. I need to have access to the rendered page...)      (With rendering I mean only rendering the DOM Tree    not    a visual rendering...)     This does not have to be one single library, it's ok to have several libraries that can accomplish this together (one will download, one render...)but due to the dynamic nature of JavaScript most likely the JavaScript library will also have to have some kind of downloader to fully render any asynchronous JS...     Background: In the "good old days" HttpClient (Apache Library) was everything required to build your own very simple crawler. (A lot of cralwers like Nutch or Heretrix are still build around this core princible, mainly focussing on Standard HTML parsing, so I can't learn from them) My problem is that I need to crawl some websites that rely heavily on JavaScript and that I can't parse with HttpClient as I defenitely need to execute the JavaScripts before...     Thank you very much!! Tim  
When you say "render any asynchronous js" do you mean that the library needs to have the ability to "scrape" any asynchronous calls that the page makes? This would be really difficult because you'd basically be trying to capture the content of a dynamic page that updates after the initial request is complete and sometimes data is not pulled in asynchronously until the user triggers an event.
  MozSwing could help    http://confluence.concord.org/display/MZSW/Home   .  
  You can try JExplorer.  For more information see    http://www.teamdev.com/downloads/jexplorer/docs/JExplorer-PGuide.html       You can also try Cobra, see    http://lobobrowser.org/cobra.jsp      
  This is a bit outside of the box, but if you are planning on running your code in a server where you have complete control over your environment, it might work...     Install Firefox (or XulRunner, if you want to keep things lightweight) on your machine.     Using the Firefox plugins system, write a small plugin which takes loads a given URL, waits a few seconds, the copies the page's DOM into a String.     from this plugin, use the Java LiveConnect API (see    http://jdk6.java.net/plugin2/liveconnect/    and    https://developer.mozilla.org/en/LiveConnect    ) to push that string across to a public static function in some embedded Java code, which can either do the required processing itself or farm it out to some more complicated code.       Benefits:    You are using a browser that most application developers target, so the observed behavior should be comparable. You can also upgrade the browser along the normal upgrade path, so your library won't become out-of-date as HTML standards change.       Disadvantages:    You will need to have permission to start a non-headless application on your server. You'll also have the complexity of inter-process communication to worry about.     I have used the plugin API to call Java before, and it's quite achievable. If you'd like some sample code, you should take a look at the XQuery plugin - it loads XQuery code from the DOM, passes it across to the Java Saxon library for processing, then pushes the result back into the browser. There are some details about it here:       https://developer.mozilla.org/en/XQuery    
+1 - A solution along these lines had already been started once, but unfortunately development stalled in 2008, apparently - enter [Crowbar](http://simile.mit.edu/wiki/Crowbar]): _Its purpose is to allow running javascript scrapers against a DOM to automate web sites scraping but avoiding all the syntax normalization issues._ - Even a [Java integration has been attempted with some success](http://www.benjysbrain.com/misc/crowbar/), but Ben's conclusion and updates are highlighting some drawbacks and issues as well.
Thanks, yes, I had this idea too. But if at all possible I would like to have a "headless" solition, as the software has to run on servers with possibly no X system installed... But thanks for the details and explanations, I will have a deeper look into it if nothing else comes up.
  The    Selenium    library is normally used for testing, but does give you remote control of most standard browsers (IE, Firefox, etc) as well as a headless, browser free mode (using HtmlUnit). Because it is intended for UI verification by page scraping, it may well serve your purposes.     In my experience it can sometimes struggle with very slow JavaScript, but with careful use of "wait" commands you can get quite reliable results.     It also has the benefit that you can actually drive the page, not just scrape it. That means that if you perform some actions on the page before you get to the data you want (click the search button, click next,    now    scrape) then you can code that into the process.     I don't know if you'll be able to get the full DOM in a navigable form from Selenium, but it    does    provide XPath retrieval for the various parts of the page, which is what you'd normally need for a scraping application.  
Thank you! Selenium looks promising, but if I want to run it headless I could directly use HtmlUnit. And so far I had a few issues with HtmlUnit. Especially when it comes to performance. I will have a closer look at Selenium.
  You can use Java, Groovy with or without Grails. Then use Webdriver, Selenium, Spock and Geb these are for testing purposes, but the libraries are useful for your case. You can implement a Crawler that won't open a new window but just a runtime of these either browser.       Selenium :    http://code.google.com/p/selenium/       Webdriver :    http://seleniumhq.org/projects/webdriver/       Spock :    http://code.google.com/p/spock/       Geb :    http://www.gebish.org/manual/current/testing.html      
Geb looks promising, I will look deeper into it. Thank you!
Yes I should have specified that Geb includes all of the above :) It's really a great new way to do testing.
  I haven't tried this project, but I have seen several implementations for node.js that include javascript dom manipulation.       https://github.com/tmpvar/jsdom    
  You can use JavaFX 2    WebEngine   . Download    JavaFX SDK     (you may already have it if you installed JDK7u2 or later) and try code below.     It will print html with processed javascript. You can uncomment lines in the middle to see rendering as well.    
Hi, thanks for that answer. But I did not manage to load some websites. E.g. I could not load http://maps.google.com/maps/place?cid=4049416522220865697 &view =feature &mcsrc =google_reviews &num =10 &start =0. It never reaches 100 percent, it hangs at 0. Also how could I make sure that everything loaded?
you need to load the Scene or else it would not work
How can recognize user selected which ones?
  I have two list on my request on jsp. First one is productGroupName, and the second is products.     Now, I show these like below.       As you see firstly I iterate productGroupNames, showing if productID is equal to productGroupID under productGroupName. But I have a problem on getting check box and quantity info. I need which product is checked and how many that is wanted.  
  I don't do Struts, but their documentation at least says that you need the        html:multibox        for this.  
  Instead of doing a form submit directly, submit it through a JS function. In your JS function, since you're iterating your list and giving the checkbox and text field the same name, you'll get an array with the same name. That is you'll get an array of the IDs. You can get the index of the selected checkbox, get the quantity, get the corresponding list element and populate separate hidden form variables with the value. Then submit it.     An alternative approach would be to have a hidden variable associated with each checkbox which provides some mapping between the list and the checkbox.  
Can HtmlUnit handle JavaScript redirects?
  Instead of automatically following JavaScript redirects, can I force HtmlUnit to return the URL the JavaScript wants to redirect me to?     // context:     If there's 5 JavaScript redirects in a row, I can only see the URL of the page where it stopped - I can't view the 5 URLs it ran through.     Perhaps I can hook up the logger to a callback method to look for redirects? Not sure if this is possible, or how it would work..  
  Previous answer is quite inaccurate :-(     I think that what you want to do is possible but you should use HtmlUnit mailing list to discuss it as it may require a bit hacking.  
  You can do this by adding a WebWindowListener to the WebClient, and waiting for the webWindowContentChanged method to get called.  
Yes, I did this and it worked fine.  Keep in mind that you're working with multiple threads (webWindowContentChanged method is called by different thread), and that if you have multiple redirects you may have to wait for each of them.
on submit action
  I am trying to call submit action from javascript using simpleFormController of Spring but action calling only handleRequest but its not calling the onsubmit action  
give code, we can't guess what's your javascript look like.
  As Bozho says, it would help to see some code.  However, my experience is that when onSubmit is not being called, it's usually because the request is showing up as a GET rather than a POST; by default the controller determines whether a request is a form submission by looking for a POST.     Two ways to fix it: 1) make it a POST (i.e. submit a form via javascript, say) or 2) override isFormSubmission to use some other criteria for deciding whether a given request is a form submission -- for example, you might want to say that if a certain parameter is present, the request should be treated as a form submission, even if it's a GET request.  
Is it possible to do a traceroute in the browser?
  I'm looking for a way to do a traceroute client-side, i.e. in a browser.     As far as I know, it's not possible to send ICMP, UDP or TCP packets with arbitraty TTL values via Javascript or Flash. I know Flash allows TCP connections via the Socket class in Actionscript but it doesn't seem useful for a traceroute implementation.     Is the only solution to develop a browser plug-in ?       EDIT   : I just found out that it has been done with a Java applet:    http://www.codefromthe70s.org/traceroute.aspx       The bad news is that this applet requires to be signed code because it actually parses the output from the ping executable of the underlying client system. Because of this, the user is asked to allow the Java application to run, which is cumbersome.     More info here:    http://www.codefromthe70s.org/traceroute_explained.aspx       I am still looking for a simpler solution if anyone can help.       EDIT 2   : Thanks for your anwsers. I guess I'll have to go with Java then.     I wonder if NaCl (    http://code.google.com/p/nativeclient/    ) would support some kind of traceroute app.  
Why can't you sign the applet?
I can sign it of course. Just checking if there are other ways to do this.
  Hmm... no, because of the security model.     You    might    be able to do it in a particular browser with a plug-in, but not an arbitrary browser using anything widely available.     I'd like to be proven wrong here.  
  How about executing traceroute on the server and returning the result with somekind of ajax call  
Because the point is to do the traceroute from the client IP, not the server IP.
@Franck: the route is *usually* symmetrical, so this could work most of the time.
  Why don't you    just    sign the applet? Isn't the problem actually more you don't know how to sign the applet? If so, then start here:    jarsigner   .    Here    is a more clear tutorial.     There is actually no simpler/better solution than    actually    running some piece of code and/or commands at the client machine. The traceroute really have to originate at the client machine.      Javascript and Actionscript cannot do this due to security restrictions. They lives in the webpage context only. Silverlight might be able to do, but don't pin me on that. I don't do NET stuff.  
It's not that I don't know how to do it but thanks for the tutorial link. I only wanted some confirmation that this was impossible in JS/ActionScript due to the browser security model.
I expected that a signed java applet would be able to send ICMP packets, but after some googling, it actually looks like java only natively supports TCP/UDP?  I suppose it's still possible via JNI.
  You can't do this at all from a browser. Javascript can at best open a connection back to its originating server for AJAX requests, but can only do so via HTTP. Flash can talk to arbitrary hosts, but only if they're listed in a crossdomain.xml file on the originating server, and again only via TCP. UDP support in Flash is apparently pending.     Traceroute and ping are both ICMP-based protocols and cannot be created/controlled from Flash or Javascript. They also both require 'raw' access to build custom packets, and this definitely cannot be done browser-side. This is why 'ping' is an 'SUID' program on Unix systems, as raw packet access requires root privileges.     At best you can do a server-side implementation and have the output sent to the browser. And even then, you most likely could not do it from an in-server process on a Unix box, as the web server is unlikely to be running as root. You'd have to execute the system ping and/or traceroute and redirect the output back to the browser.  
"You can't do this at all from a browser." -- with the exception of a signed applet using JNI.  I'm pretty sure a signed applet running JNI can do literally anything.
  There is CoNetServ (Complex Network Services) browser extension. It is able to do traceroute from your local machine straight in your browser.   http://wiki.github.com/VojtechVitek/CoNetServ/       Chrome extension:    https://chrome.google.com/extensions/detail/mmkpilpdijdbifpgkpdndpjlkpjkihee   Firefox add-on:    https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/181909/           EDIT:       Both Chrome and Firefox revoked bundling NPAPI libraries into the extensions/add-ons. Unfortunately, the above won't work anymore.    
Is there any alternative to be able to do what CoNetServ was capable of doing?
  Maybe a little late, but could be interesting for future readings (like mine :-D).     Java 1.5 has a InetAdress Class with a isReachable method, that you can try. Check this:       http://download.oracle.com/javase/1.5.0/docs/api/java/net/InetAddress.html#isReachable(int   )  
Its not guaranteed to be an actual ICMP request, and you can't adjust the TTL. http://www.0x13.de/index.php/code-snippets/74-icmp-ping-in-java.html
  You don't need to create an applet and sign it! It's possible to use java from javascript.   I made a script    for doing a traceroute with ActiveX or Java.     I don't see any security warnings on OS X. Try it on Windows and Linux and tell me what happens :-)       UPD:    seems like it only works in Firefox  
Google Map Coords escaping - Resolved
  This is the problem: 45 38'14.07"     How can escape it (Struts action read an XLS that made a string. This string is the param of array in js).     Or without escaping.. how can I use it?   
  Not sure if this answers your question, but in JSON notation, this would be escaped as:       Notice that I've used the unicode for the angle (code: 0xb0 according to    http://tlt.its.psu.edu/suggestions/international/bylanguage/mathchart.html   ) and escape the double quote.  Hopefully that's helpful.  Depending on how you're going to use it, you could also represent the degree symbol as         for input into HTML.     So if initializing an array, you'd want something like this:    
Try it now! Thank you!
PERFECT! Thanks!!!
Handling self-refreshing pages from selenium
  I have been running into intermittent errors with some java selenium-rc tests which I think are related to a page which has an ajax poll and automatically refreshes when some condition is reached on the server. In this scenario, I have no way of asking selenium to wait for the page to load, and so I run into a bunch of random "Couldn't access document.body" errors.     So, is there some way I can cause selenium to gracefully handle this situation? If not, is there some way I could detect whether the user is selenium from the page's javascript, and disable the automatic refresh?     If it helps at all, the javascript code in the page looks something like...    
@Matt what changes when the page reloads
Some links which were disabled become re-enabled - Nothing relevant to the test. Ideally we would update the page to the new state with ajax or something, but the effort required to do that was extensive compared to this page refreshing mechanism.
Looks like I might be able to detect running under selenium with something like http://nerd.metrocat.org/2009/10/detecting-selenium or http://thoughtstoblog.blogspot.com/2009/09/selenium-alert-and-confirm-in-pages.html. I'll give that a go tomorrow...
  I think that you can pause, or use a click and wait. There are    a few       good articles    on the google. Good luck.     Edit for your comment:     How about the    waitFor command   ?  
Trouble is, the refresh is triggered by the underlying page, not selenium, so there's no point time at which selenium could know it needs to call pause or clickAndWait.
  One solution might be to always use a    waitForCondition    using    isElementPresent    before attempting to interact with the application under test. You could put the following method in a superclass to keep your tests more readable. Alternatively you could create helper methods for common Selenium commands that perform this wait.       You may also want to wait for the element to be visible, as waiting for it to just be present isn't always enough (imagine a textbox that is always present but hidden until a certain condition). You can combine this with the above method:       Incidentally, the WebDriver (Selenium 2) team are working on having implicit waits, specifically to address AJAX issues where elements are not present immediately.  
Couldn't the page refresh still occur after the waitForCondition completes (successfully) but before the next test step starts, causing the next step to fail? This solution might help if the page were in the middle of a refresh when the waitForCondition starts though - Thanks.
Unfortunately it's still a possibility, yes. There also might be the chance that the page is in a state where the commands return failure as the page has not loaded anything yet. In this case I have had to wait for the window name to exist in a previous project.
Guess I'll have to look at trying to disable the refresh when running under Selenium somehow - Thanks.
  My solution was to disable the refresh in javascript by wrapping it in something like the following...       I'm not sure if the seleniumAlert function here is likely to sick around forever, so be aware if you're taking this that you may be relying on internal selenium implementation details of selenium.  
Looks like a good workaround. I'd question having to change your app to suit your testing, but it sounds like you had little choice.
How to get CPU utilization using Javascript or Java
  How can I get the CPU utilization of client's machine.     I have created a Java web application and where I need to get the CPU utilization of client's machine.     Can it be done using either Javascript or Java?  
Do you mean Java or Javascript?
Right now it is unclear whether or not you are asking about the `Java` or `Javascript` programming languages.  Could you please clarify?
I need to achieve the task , whether in JSP or Javascript any thing.
  Whatever you use, Java or Javascript, you can't get CPU utilization of the client's machine. That will be a huge security risk. The only way to do it will be to install a plug-in. This wouldn't help too much however, as reading the CPU utilization is platform specific.  
anything done by using applet. or some thing else
You need to create an applet. The applet would need to use JNI to measure CPU usage. This will be platform specific. Then you need to ask the users to install the applet. I don't have an easy solution for you.
  If its java look at OperatingSystemMXBean using the please be aware this is Java 1.6 only.        I am not sure how well this works in an applet.  
  It may look like a security risk, but there is a technique to get an estimate of the CPU usage with JavaScript inside the browser. You may want to check this article:         Ajaxian - JPU: JavaScript CPU Monitor    (   Demo here   )       As    kgiannakakis    noted in a comment below, this calculation is based on the delay of    setInterval()    calls.     I remember seeing a similar implementation on    Mindmeister.com    (showing the CPU usage while editing a mind map.)   
This provides an estimation of CPU usage, based on the delay of setInterval calls.
  There is simple example of a CPU usage monitor demonstrates how to use XML DOM capabilities of client JavaScript in a BSP application to dynamically request data from server and adjust corresponding elements of the screen without reloading the whole page.     This    article    might be helpful.  
  jni concept for cpu utilization       http://www.javaworld.com/javaworld/javaqa/2002-11/01-qa-1108-cpu.html?page=1       try this link  
  @Daniel provides a link to a method that (on a good day) would give an approximate measure of CPU usage.     @kgiannakakis says that this would be a serious security risk.     But I wonder.  How could an attacker exploit CPU usage levels to compromise the user machine's security, or steal sensitive information about the user?  Off the top of my head, I cannot think of anything realistic.     The only possible risk I can think of would be if the attacker had already installed/launched some spy software somewhere else on the user's machine.  The ability to measure CPU usage could be used to implement a "   covert channel   " to get information from the spy s/w to the outside world.  But this is only of theoretical interest (unless you are trying to implement A1 / A2 level security).   
+1 Good points.
  I once looked into creating a Web Start application that could be launched by a user to "scan" their system hardware. Luckily, the targeted systems were Windows boxes, so I used the Jacob package (Google or search this site for info) to do a WMI query for things like serial numbers, etc.     I created a proof of concept Swing client app, but never got around to the Web Start portion.  
Set and Read/Retrieve cookie using javascript within a java file(.java)
  Let me refrase it. i am writing a new http-server using sockets in java-language(not javascript) and i want to tell client to set cookie. I would like  to do that in javascript(setin reading the cookie). If that is not possible, Are there other solutions? Thank you all.  
Please rephrase your question!! Are you writing a new server or just using one? Do you want the code in javascript or java?
If you are writing the server in Java, and not using JavaScript, where does the JavaScript to handle the cookie come into play? Is this client side JavaScript? If so, it renders the server completely irrelevant.
  Your question/requirement is extremely vague. Are you really not confusing    JavaScript    with    Java    itself or maybe    JSP   ? Or are you using server-side JavaScript? Why would you like to do that for a "http server"? Why would you like to write a HTTP server rather than using en existing one like    Apache HTTP Server    or    Apache Tomcat   ?     At least, in JavaScript you can manage cookies by      document.cookie     . In Java it depends on in which context you're talking. If in Servlet context, use      HttpServletResponse#addcookie()      and      HttpServletRequest#getCookies()     . If in JSP EL context, use      ${cookie}     . If in URL streaming context, use      URLConnection#addRequestProperty()      and      URLConnection#getHeaderFields()     . If in "raw" Socket context just adhere the HTTP state management specification    RFC 2965    and indirectly also the HTTP 1.1 specification    RFC 2616    while writing the "raw" data through the socket. But you should already know that as you intended to create a HTTP server.  
  If you are writing your own HTTP server, then you should be able to set the HTTP header directly:       You could also send javascript to the browser to do this (by including your script in a HTML page which you give to the client), but I don't really see the advantage of doing it that way.     The example was taken from the following wikipedia page:       http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_cookie    
Combine Google Maps API  &  Google Maps Data API
  When i embed a map from my maps i use the link that googgle maps provides me This map i can manipulate with    Google Maps Data API and Java           iframe width="425" height="350" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" src="http://maps.google.com/maps/ms?source=embed   amp;hl=el   amp;geocode=   amp;ie=UTF8   amp;t=h   amp;msa=0   amp; msid=118122212106261754884.00047ec38974a377d47dd   amp; ll=39.527348,21.00174   amp;spn=0,0   amp;output=embed"     /iframe     br /         but then i can't put it on a div and manipulate it with    Google Maps API and Javascript   to catch events for example     Now if i use   The "Hello, World" of Google Maps    i can do all of the above but this map is not in "My Maps" so i can't use the gui and all the operations the google maps give me for a kind of "administration" on the map     How can i combine these technologies? Can Mapplets help me?     Click here for an example i made   In this example i cannot manipulate the second map with javascript i.e. setCenter() on the map     I'am confused :(  
  Have you tried following the    documentation    for the Google Maps API? It seems like you aren't making a proper request to the the Google Maps service.     If you have some kind of "administration" marking on the maps, that would indicate to me that perhaps you are using the test code - and probably need to sign up for an API key in order to remove this marking.  
Please check here: http://www.infofire.gr/testGis/myTest.html I use google maps api for the first map and  google maps   Data    api in the second. My problem is that i can't manipulate the second map with javascript  i.e i can't execute setCenter() on this map
  Embedding a Google Map is different from using the Google Maps API. You have a couple of options here - you can update your MyMap, export is as KML (via the View in Google Earth link) and load it using GGeoXML.     Alternatively, you can use the Maps Data API to load data from your My Map and programmatically add it to the map. Here is a sample:    http://gmaps-samples.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/college-finder/index.html   .  
Copy external HDD
  I want to write an app. (web-based if possible) to copy an external HDD (already partitioned and containing data) to a like HDD with the same partitions-- does anyone think this would be possible with Java (Google App Engine? To convert Java app and run in web environment? Or likewise)     Thoughts on if anything thinks this would be possible in a certain language would be very helpful! PS. I think one of the biggest constraints would be where the data is going to land in between downloaded from one drive, and uploading to the next -- so for example I would need to establish a temp. directory on the users local internal HDD, transfer the contents of the external, than direct the final process of moving that data back out to the new external!     PS. I also know the brand, size of drive I will be using.  
  You shouldn't be trying to do this in a webapp, IMO.  You will be blocked by sandbox security restrictions if you do this in an untrusted webapp / applet.  And asking users to open up security to let your app do this is too dangerous ... for them.     Bulk file copying is best done using native OS tools.  
Yes, this would be a lot easier, but I want to limit the number of times a user can use the app. and so they would have to approve the security restrictions after they purchased a license.
Ick!  If I was a customer, I think I'd be asking for my money back!!
this does not address the question.  while many would agree with Steven C's assessment.  this answer does not address the 'How To'
  Well, in theory you can do it in Java as a Java Applet. But the Applet must be signed and the user must approve the security restrictions for the applet. It might be problematic copying the same hard drive of the OS if you are trying to do a bit by bit copy.     If you want a bit by bit copy of the OS disc, you must boot from an external CDROM/USB Device in order to preform the copy, and then the best language to write it will be C/C++.     If you are not searching for bit by bit copy, then you can just copy the files and that's can be accomplished even using JavaScript with shell.scripting object.  
jUSB in a Java Applet, assuming users were willing to approve security restrictions (don't know much about "signing" an applet -- any advice? Not sure what you mean about "bit by bit" copy, but the data will be pretty much one large block file that is designed for use with another file system-- (and I'm not trying to copy the OS disk).
  You didn't specified all the requirements, but (normally) you cannot do this in an Web app because:       You need access rights (ok, possible but...)     You need speed      The data is changing during the copy? If yes, then how? If the files are added / deleted then you need to register a watcher on drive (which means a concrete platform-specific API callback - very unlikely to be available in any Web language - Java, PHP etc.) to see what files needs to be copied after you scanned already the place in which the new file is added / deleted. If the files can be "anything" and are    modified    "randomly" during the copy process then you're in trouble. Because you can copy a file which is in an inconsistent state. This case is rare but it can happen. Especially if you want to mirror some kind of special HDD (eg. the main drive - the drive with the OS on it).       Also, there are other tricks involved when the files are changing on the source disk (different applications have different storage engines which have different patterns on saving a file).     If the disks are 'frozen' then you're ok. You can do a simple file copy (but also beware if you need to copy the file attributes, file streams etc.).     But if not, I'd advise you to buy a ready made application for this task like    this one   .  
Thanks for the replies.  1.) I've been reading about jUSB (for Java) -- since ultimately the drives will be external HDDs hooked up using a USB-SATA adapter. What do you think of this?  Once I'm able to hook into the HDD using some sort of USB-host controller it will should behave like any other usb device.    2.) The file system is basically big blocks of data, a simple file structure will have to be duplicated, but I know where each partition begins and ends. 3.) The reason for a web-app. was licensing really I want to control the number of copies a user can make with a license database.
So, in fact, the data **doesn't** change during the copy process? This is the crux of the problem.
Best location to put your CSS and JS files in a Mavenized Java Web app?
  I have a Web application in maven that follows this structure:       Is is better to put it in the main folder and then the maven plug in will try to move it or I should put it inside the webapp folder and why?  
  If you don't need to filter CSS and JS files, I would simply put them in    src/main/webapp    (if you put them in    src/main/resources   , they will end up in    target/classes    and in    WEB-INF/classes    in the WAR which is very unlikely what you want). If you need to filter them, additional resources can be included in the WAR using the    webResources    parameter. Have a look at    Adding and Filtering External Web Resources    for more details.  
Thanks, that explained why I see both flavors when goggling the location
  I think they should be under    src\main\webapp   .  The main rationale for saying this is that this is the standard    suggested    by Maven, and the Maven philosophy is that all projects should follow the same structure as much as possible.  
  Taken from    Introduction to the Standard Directory Layout   :       "If there are other contributing sources to the artifact build, they would be under other subdirectories: for example    src/main/antlr    would contain Antlr grammar definition files."       So I think    src/main/javascript    and    src/main/css    is the right place...     What do you think?  
Very much inclined to agree with you. JavaScript and CSS are separate languages with their own nuances and use cases, not simply add ons or managed scripts bundled along java (as much as I love java!)
  I am seeing quite a variation of answers to this question.  One set of threads (like some people in this thread) seem to think that Maven apps should place css/images/js files into the src\main\webapp  folder - similar to the traditional J2EE pattern.  Others feel that the resources (or another similar peer) folder outside of webapps should be used instead:       Maven web project - source locations for JSPs, JavaScript, CSS, Images       I have yet to form an opinion, but it would seem to make sense to separate these client side types of files from the server side - if only because in high performance focused production situations, the static client side files such as these are typically separated out and placed into a cacheable front end web server for faster access anyway, so keeping them in their own separate resources folder would seem to make this job easier.  
How to pass a Javascript object to a Java applet in Safari?
  I'm trying to call into a Java applet from Javascript but when I pass an object the Java applet only receives null.  This works in IE and Firefox but not in Safari 4 (tried OSX and Windows version, neither seem to work).     The Java applet method I'm calling might look like:       And the HTML/Javascript that calls it:       NullPointerException is the result in Safari because the "someobject" parameter in the Java applet is null.  Again, this works fine in Firefox and IE in Windows, OSX, and Linux but in Safari the sampleFunction() will get passed a null parameter.     Also, the reverse direction doesn't seem to work either.  If I get the window object and call into the Javascript from Java any objects I pass don't work.  For example, I can pass an array of Strings and in the Javascript I get a [Ljava.lang.String type object but I can't access anything in it (length is undefined and the array operators don't work).     Is Safari just broken or what?  Any ideas?  
Did you try this in google chrome?  That also uses WebKit, it may be a webkit issue.
Works fine in Chrome for Windows.  Does not work in Chrome for Linux or OSX.
Don't know whether this anything to do with it or not: can you swap out the 'applet' tag for the ' <object...' or ' < embed...' tag ? Like here: (this isn't a problem , just a page on swapping applet tag) http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.4.2/docs/guide/plugin/developer_guide/using_tags.html
This similar ? http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1211342/signed-java-applet-doesnt-get-permissions-in-safari
It's not a permissions problem as I have seen that and it's a completely different error.  Using object tags makes no difference.
Did you get any resolution to this? I'm also seeing strange behaviour in Safari where it won't even pass strings: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6071601
  If you can, I'd suggest serializing the object to a JSON string.  You can snag json2.js from json.org and use json.stringify(obj) sending it to your Java applet.  On the java side, you should be able to deserialize the JSON string to a native object.  This is probably the most reliable method of tranfering the data.  The down side to this method, is you will likely need a means of specifying a callback method to run from the Java side.  
Yeah, that's exactly what I have been doing.  I have a mechanism whereby callbacks get a unique name and can be called using their text-based name.  With that said, it's still a stupid inefficient hack due to one single broken browser.
Every finished piece of javascript contains at least one "stupid and inefficient hack due to one single broken browser". Unless you don't care about those millions of users still using IE6...
Well, we _shouldn't_ have to care about a 10 year old browser.
@matthijs unfortunately "shouldn't" and "do" are different things.. also, it's not quite 10 yet (Not until August of 2011).
Passing a JavaScript object using addJavascriptInterface() on Android
  Is it possible to pass a JavaScript object from JavaScript to Java using addJavascriptInterface()? Something along these lines:       How would such a call be captured on the Java side? I have no problem setting up the interface to send a string, but when I send an object, I receive null on the Java end.  
  AFAIK,    addJavascriptInterface()    only works with primitive types and Strings, and so you cannot pass arbitrary Javascript objects.  
No way for arrays?   I need to pass something a little  longer ...
@Robert Siemer: Use JSON, then.
Or... I call some Java method once for each item in the array. I expect to have less then ten items...
@Robert Siemer: If you're not going to call it a lot, implement whichever you find easier. If it's something you do frequently, benchmark them. I don't know how much overhead there is in the JS->Java bridge.
@RobertSiemer It works returning JSONArray. See my answer.
Does anybody know if there is actually any documentation on exactly what can be taken as parameters and what can be returned from a method which is part of the injected java object?
@WayneUroda: Alas, I am not aware of any formal documentation.
What madness...
From my tests, you can pass any primitive, string, of array of those. in case of polymorphism, though, it appears that the method that accepts float has priority (probably a matter of ordering the methods). I'll post something about that when I have investigated further
@WayneUroda I'm also looking for some documentation. Does anybody know something in the mean time?
  I think you can also pass JSONObject and JSONArray. So not only primitive types, but also primitive types stored in a javascript array [0,1,2] or dictionary {one:1, two:2}.     I have NOT verified this in code, just read the docs. Might be using it soon.  
Where are the docs? There's only a tiny section devoted to it in WebView's documentation.
Can someone confirm this?
I can confirm this, but in JS space, it is not a real Javascript array.  You'll get an object with methods like length() and get(), I could only use the specific get()s like getInt().  Basically I'm pretty sure you get everything here: http://www.json.org/javadoc/org/json/JSONArray.html
@IanKershaw It works returning JSONArray. See my answer.
  I found a solution, using JSON. My Java method returns a JSONArray, on my javascript code I receive this and convert to a javascript vector using JSON.parse(). See the example:     Java:       Now the javascript code:       The commented code above show how it was when static, and now the data came from the Java code.     It was testes on Android 2.1 and 3.2.  
  You cant pass JSONObject or JSONArray, but you can send strings with that form and parse them to those types.      Your option is to expose the method using strings and then you can use the JSONObject or JSONArray to parse the string and use it accordingly.     Here is what I did.       where array is '["string1","string2"]' and jsonObj is '{attr:1, attr2:"myName"}'  
How can I access Java list elements from my client-side JavaScript code?
  I have the following simple script, which I am using to dynamically create the list elements in a      ul           My problem stems from the images attribute. Every article has a slideshow and every slideshow has a list of images. I want to pull out the very first image from the list of images via the jave list.get(index); I want to do something like    "${a.slideShow.images.get(0)}";   . The get() is a java method from the list object.      Any ideas?  
Javascript is in no way related to Java, apart from the first four letters of the name.
Forget about Java, use plain (real javascript), and DOM (Document Object Model) to get the items in that UL. JavaScript is also typically client side code.
Guys, read the question and code instead of only title before commenting.
Titles are important.  Are they not a synopsis of the problem?  If the question states something different than the prose, might it not suggest a misunderstanding?
Hi guys, I'm terrably sorry about the ambiguous wording. BalusC, point well taken. Thanks for the help.
  As those who commented on your question suggest, this is a common misunderstanding.  By the time your JavaScript executes (in the browser), Java and JSP and JSTL are no longer available.  The JSTL/JSP execute at the server to create source/HTML that is then sent to the client.     View source on your page - it might shed some light.  You should not see the JSP/JSTL you include above.  
He's **generating** Javascript code with JSP/JSTL...
You are correct.  By the wording of the question and the attached comments, I was not certain he understood that.  Do you think my answer is confusing?
  In EL you can use the brace notation to access a    List    element by index. Thus, the following should do:       This will behind the scenes do exactly as you proposed:    a.getSlideShow().getImages().get(0)   .     That said, you normally declare JS arrays like follows:       The    new    keyword is considered discouraged in JS.  
new keyword discouraged for creating arrays?  Or always discouraged?
@Upper Stage: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/383402/is-javascript-s-new-keyword-considered-harmful
@Binaryrespawn: What do you mean with "causing my page not to load"? This is too ambiguous. If you get a blank page, check server logs for any exceptions/errors. If you get a normal page, but the images doesn't get loaded, rightclick page and view generated HTML/JS source code and verify if it is syntactically valid.
Hi,this stsatement did not work for me. It causes my page not to load, may be because there are articles with no slideshow and hence no images. Hence I did this,  <c:if test="${a.slideShow.images != null}> arr[${status.index}] = ${a.slideShow.images[0]};    , but this causes my page not to load. and its the part where it said images[0]. Now the concept works, because, as a test, I tried ${articles[0].title} within the body and this worked. So I am really baffeled.
As said, just open page in browser and check generated JS code if it is **syntactically valid**. Maybe it represents a string value and you're forgotten singlequotes around the JS variable value.
Loading Java applet with height set to 100%
  I have an webpage that displays a java applet. The applet is resized if the window is resized using JavaScript which works fine. The width and height of the applet is set to 100%. When the applet is loading, an image is displayed        Using IE 6/7 everything works fine. But in Firefox, the applet has a height of approximately 200 pixels. The width is correct at 100%. Therefore, the preloader image is cut in half. After the applet has loaded and the javascript resizes the page, width and height are set correctly.      If I change the HTML code and use fixed sizes for the applet, the object displays correctly during loading, but cannot be resized afterwards.     Is there any solution to this problem?     Thanks, Daniel     ps I'm using the Object / embed Tag, but the problem is the same if I use the applet tag.  
  Hard to say without looking at the page. One possibility is the applet loads before the javascript gets run. In which case you could try loading the applet using javascript (instead of coding it directly in the html).  
  I would advise you to implement a CSS based solution and create the applet with    100%    size of the containing    div   . I use this method, it's simple, solid and cross browser reliable. Is there any reason you can't do this?  
That's exactly how I do it. The applet (at 100%) is contained within a div also set to 100% width and height. As I said, it works with IE, but not in Firefox.
To clarify, the resizing also works in Firefox - but just not during the loading phase. As soon as all .jar archives are loaded an the applet communicates its handle to the page, the applet area is resized correctly. It's just the small detail of initializing the applet..
Interesting, if the problem occurs before the resizing occurs then can't you deduce that it's a CSS problem. Can you try disabling the JavaScript resizing code and attempt to fix it so the applet displays correctly at this stage?
  I was getting the same kind of short-and-wide applet in Firefox and Opera.      Now I create the applet dynamically, and this allows me to calculate the size of its containing div depending on the viewport size. This leads me to believe that you would get what you want if you used a containing div with a size specified in points and not as 100%.     The code I use to create the applet       The code running at    http://books.verg.es/elements_of_ux.html?format=java    
  I had the same problem, and I can't find an answer, but I got the solution. You have to embed the applet code in a Javascript function, and fill the innerHtml of the body with it (or wherever you want to use the applet) shortly after the page is loaded. So...       Any adds to the answer are helpful :-)  
How can I use java,html or javascript to convert relative href attributes into absolute paths?
  I would like to open an html file locally (not fetch it from a server) and somehow ensure that the relative hrefs are turned correctly resolved. I suppose I need to convert them into absolute paths.      I played around with the html  element, in the head of the document, to resolve any relative links on the page, but only had limited success (often the resources could not be found).      I can convert the html source file anyway I wish with java, but ideally I would like to modify the html source as little as possible, for example insert a function that modifies the result of the hrf attribute.     How would I go about this? Do any of the java html parsers do this?     Thanks   
You want to download the page, and then have any relative URIs point at their original locations on the server you got it from?
yup that is correct.
  If you want to do it on your own, I recommend you to read the chapter    Reference Resolution in RFC 3986   . It explains how to establish the base URI and how to resolve relative URIs by giving an algorithm.     But there s probably already a library in Java that does that for you.  
ideally I would like to find a java program that does it for me. But thanks the link will surely help.
I suppose I just need to create a uri out of the address, then call URI#resolve(relative).
@user273096: Yes, I think `(new URI(base)).resolve(relative)` will do it.
alrighty thanks.
How to set header information
  I have a piece of Java code which tries to access the header information posted by an html page.Right now I don't have the html page but I need to access the header information in the java file details.Can anyone please help me in writing a html page which sets header information?  
  Headers cannot be changed by a plain html file.     What you are trying to achieve though may be doable via "meta http-equiv" directives. So, what are you trying to achieve?  
meta http-equiv is ok.Is there any syntax?
  Since you tagged it javascript: Use an AJAX request. You can use the    setRequestHeader(header, value)       method of XMLHttpRequest      
I can't use AJAX.I want only synchronous Javascript.
You can make the xhr synchronous by calling the `open` with the third parameter (async) set to `false`. https://developer.mozilla.org/en/XMLHttpRequest#open%28%29
  Below is the some sample meta data tags syntax:            http://htmlhelp.com/reference/html40/head/meta.html    
Can you call a servlet with a link?
  Can you call a servlet with a link? For example       And possibly pass parameters to the request object by adding them to the querystring.     If not, I have seen this kind of thing:       But how would I trigger this? For example if it was JavaScript code I could put it within a jQuery click function, or if this was a servlet I would put it into a method.     But how do I call this code from within a JSP. As far as I know you can't call Java code with JavaScript events.  
    is perfectly legal and will work.     That will make the    doGet(..)    method of the servlet be called, and you can get the parameter using    request.getParameter("param")    
...which will specifically call `doGet()`.
It doesn't seem to work in IE but it does in Firefox
@Ankur: This is certainly not browserdependent. The problem likely lies in the HTML/JS code or a cached page in browser (do Ctrl+F5 or restart).
  Perhaps the following is what you're after:    
  Just to clear a misconception:          As far as I know you can't call Java code with Javascript events.       You can perfectly call Java code with JavaScript code (and events). To the point, you just need to let JavaScript send a fullworthy HTTP request to the server side. There are basically 3 ways for this.         The first way is to simulate invocation of an existing link/button/form. E.g.       and           The second way is to use window.location to fire a plain GET request. For example:           The third way is to use XMLHttpRequest object to fire an asynchronous request and process the results. This technique is the base idea of "Ajax". Here's a Firefox compatible example:       This can be rewritten in a shorter and crossbrowsercompatible manner with    jQuery   .         Just substitute    http://www.google.com/search    with your own servlet to get the above examples to work in your environment.     For more background information, you may find    this article    useful as well.  
Thanks for all the code
To further clarify the misconception - you cannot 'call Java from javascript', but you can invoke a URL which ultimately results in Java code being executed. The difference is subtle, but important to understand.
detecting if a file is ready and serving it for download
  I have a Spring MVC web application that is generating a report on the server, once the report is generated, I need to enable a button that allows the user to download it. I am not sure how to go about doing this.      I figured that I will have to spawn off a thread that will just keep checking for the existence of the file and use javascript (jQuery or prototype most likely) to handle the UI elements, but I'm just not sure how to tie these all together.  
  Check this example here    http://forum.springsource.org/showthread.php?t=70489    and let know if it works  
  There are no threads in Javascript.  Instead you'll set a timeout to do the polling. The polling would take the form of a URL that will respond with some sort of "ready" indicator when the file is ready. If the file is not ready, then the AJAX success handler will start another timeout. When the server says it's ready, your Javascript handler will make the button visible and no further polling will be necessary.  
  You could use some type of messaging on the server that tells the client when the file is ready e.g. we us a table for all report requests and the server writes the status into the table and the client is then asking for the status of the report job with an AJAX call every few seconds.  
Richfaces column Filter: How to fire an event on intro key
  I have a    rich:extendedDataTable    and I am using column filtering. I want the filter to be fired once the user enters the "intro" key, but in javascript there is no such event.     I want to do so because if I use events such as    onkeyup    I get too many requests and I have problems because of that. I'm using richfaces 3.3.0GA and facelets.     This is the component:         ui:composition     a4j:form ajaxSingle="true" requestDelay="700"          rich:extendedDataTable id="tablePatients" value="#{user.patientsTab.patients}" var="patient" rows="20"          onRowMouseOver="this.style.backgroundColor='#F1F1F1'" onRowMouseOut="this.style.backgroundColor='#{a4jSkin.tableBackgroundColor}'"              f:facet name="header"                  h:outputText value="Patient List" /              /f:facet              rich:column label="#{msg.id}"                  f:facet name="header"                      h:outputText value="Id" /                  /f:facet                  h:outputText value="#{patient.id}" id="patientId" /              /rich:column              rich:column label="#{msg.name}"  sortable="true" filterBy="#{patient.profile.name}" filterEvent="onkeyup"                  f:facet name="header"                      h:outputText value="Name" /                  /f:facet                  h:outputText value="#{patient.profile.name}" id="name" style="#{patient.isUnrated? 'font-weight:bold':''}" /              /rich:column               rich:column label="#{msg.lastexamination}" sortable="true"                  f:facet name="header"                      h:outputText value="Last Examination" /                  /f:facet                  h:outputText value="#{patient.lastExaminationDate}" style="#{patient.isUnrated? 'font-weight:bold':''}" /              /rich:column              rich:column label="#{msg.action}"                  f:facet name="header"                      h:outputText value="#{msg.action}"     /h:outputText     /f:facet                  a4j:commandLink id="editlink" oncomplete="#{rich:component('patientPanel')}.show()" reRender="a4jPatientPanel"                      h:graphicImage value="/images/icons/PNG-24/Add.png" style="border:0" /                      f:setPropertyActionListener value="#{patient}" target="#{user.patientsTab.patientPanel.patient}" /                  /a4j:commandLink                  rich:toolTip for="editlink" value="Edit" /              /rich:column              f:facet name="footer"                  rich:datascroller renderIfSinglePage="false" maxPages="5" /              /f:facet          /rich:extendedDataTable          /a4j:form          ui:include src="/pages/panels/patientPanel.xhtml" /     /ui:composition      
  Unfortunately, there is no easy way to customize this functionality. There are options to make it more usable, though:             a4j:queue requestDelay="1000" ignoreDupResponce="true" /      - place this in your      a4j:form      or      a4j:region      and your    onkeyup    requests will be delayed and grouped. See    richfaces demo page   :               Setting ignoreDupResponces to true reduces the count of DOM updates on typing inside the input. (in initial state count of updates is equals to count of requests)        Disabling the queue causes fully asynchronous updates. Note that updates could appear not only in direct order and as a result you could get wrong string.        Setting request delay to greater value reduces the requests count on fast typing. (More similar requests are combined in the result)                I'm currently using the following alternative:         rich:dataTable (..some attributes..)     onkeypress="if (event.keyCode == 13) {document.getElementById('formId:tableId:j_id70fsp').blur(); return false;} else {return true;}"          !-- disabling submit-on-enter --          rich:column label="#{msg.name}" sortable="true"         filterBy="#{patient.profile.name}" filterEvent="onblur"     /rich:dataTable         Where you have to see the generated id for    j_id70fsp   . It is not guaranteed that it will remain such forever, though.     And the result is that the column is filtered on pressing the enter key, which is fairly usable.      
Mmmm I've tried it and it's not working. I press enter and nothing happens. If I click outside of the input field (onblur) it filters.  I've tried with extendedDataTable and with dataTable. Same result.
is there any way to delay the request? apparently "requestDelay" in "a4j:form" is not delaying... Thanks for the response though.
not out-of-the-box. But there might be some workaround. I'll think about it.
I've tried this: onkeypress="if (event.keyCode == 13) {alert('hola');this.blur(); return false;} else {return true;}" and it works!...any suggestion why is working with an alert? Maybe is related to the blur (alert gets focus i guess)
strangely enough it had stopped working here as well. So I'll have to dig into it anyway :)
@pakore see my update
Delay is working perfect. I'm gonna try how to get the element Id. Thanks for the answer Bozho.
Using `   ` works for me. Thanks!
Thank you so much. I am using a server side filter with a manual input box and this approach worked perfectly. Allows the user to mash the ENTER button as they're wont to do. Also, as I place the filter input box manually I was able to refer to it by its immutable element ID.
  Bozho is right, but instead of using    getElementById    I prefer using this script:       It should work with FF, EI, Safari(the    targ.nodeType == 3    thing).  
    Works for me.  
  With Richfaces 3.3.3, you must to quit the filter event (   filterEvent="onblur"   ) from each    rich:column    and then you will be able to filter only when enter key is pressed!   
  Keep the onkeyup event and create a queue and associate it with the dataTable. It works but its undocumented:         a4j:queue name="qFilter" ignoreDupResponses="true" size="1" requestDelay="600" sizeExceededBehavior="dropNext"/     rich:dataTable ... eventsQueue="qFilter"   ...    
struts focus on field after validation without js
  hi i'm using struts (form) + validation i just want to ask if can i set focus on some field on form after validation without javascript? i think i red something in book programming jakarta struts but i can't remember.     thanks  
  You can set the    tabindex="1"    attribute of the input which you want to have obtain the focus first, when the page reloads.  
  You cannot set focus on a certain field with pure HTML. The    tabindex    idea as suggested by Bozho is nice, but it will only work if you actually press    tab    for the first time. It has however the disadvantage that it changes the tabbing order of the input elements. Not really user friendly.      You'll really need to grab JavaScript for this. Just do something like:       ...where    ${inputname}    dynamically resolves to name of the input field as in      input name="foo"      and where    ${inputid}    resolves to ID of input field as in      input id="foo"     . That's all.  
he said "wihtout js", that's why I gave the only option I could think of (has its drawbacks). btw, the focus is set even without pressing tab.
@Bozho: Sorry, in a basic testcase the field didn't get immediate focus after page load in any of the 5 major webbrowsers I've here.
ah, ok. I was looking at a site with set tabindex, but then it appeared to have a 'hidden' js as well.
  You can't set the focus on a field without using JavaScript. Others have tried and failed (CSS was the first place they looked at, but that doesn't cut it either).     Not sure what you've read in the book Jakarta Struts, but maybe you are referring to the    focus    attribute of the Struts        html:form        tag? That sets the focus on the desired form field without you needing to add JavaScript. But Struts will add the JavaScript, so that means no JavaScript from your side, and not no JavaScript at all.  
Using a checkbox input on a form to send the form data to different email addresses
  I am building a form for a client. Here is the rundown. The form will be used as a request to have a staff member contact the person filling out the form. However, there is a list of staff members that will contact them depending on what the subject matter is. So, I want to create a checkbox input section on the form with each staff person's email address attached to a corresponding checkbox. So, the person filling out the form can check only the staff people necessary for their needs. Finally, when the person clicks "submit", the form will be emailed to only the staff members who were checked in the form. I'm at a loss of how to set this up.  
Wnat language are you writing this in?
  In JavaScript, you can create a group of checkboxes from an array of "staff member" objects (names, email addresses, etc.).     I'd need to know more about your setup, but if you wanted to do this in Java with JavaScript on the front end (as your tags suggest), here's what I'd do:       Use DWR for your Java to JavaScript needs    http://directwebremoting.org/          Create your form in HTML if it's a one-off, simple need.       Send some Staff objects from java to the front end using something like DWR.       In JavaScript, you can loop through the "staff" JSON objects and dynamically create as many checkboxes you need.       When the user clicks submit, use JavaScript to loop through all your values and then use the mailto URI scheme to send an email with their local mail client.       Again, this is a really simple example of how to do this.  There are a million ways.   I hope this helps, but feel free to give more examples and I can probably be more specific.  
Getting JQuery to act on class name dynamically added by GWT
  I'm trying to get jquery to do some ui affects for me while using GWT.  I have notifications that I add to a page that when clicked should disappear.  Since there could be multiple notifications of the same type (warning, error, etc.) I'm trying to dynamically add a style name only when they are clicked through GWT and then have jquery act on that particular class name.       The problem is that the jquery function is firing before the style name can be added so the user has to click the notification twice in order for it to close.     Any ideas?       I then have subclasses that extend the above class       These subclasses use the UIBinder to determine how they should be drawn.  Then these widgets get added to a panel to be displayed.  
Could you provide some more source code - the part that you posted isn't exactly enough to see what is going wrong. And you might want to change `styleName.equals` to `styleName.contains` ;) Also, it might be easier to just use `FocusPanel` as your `mainWidget` than handle the `ClickHandler` registration yourself :) And you might want to switch to naming your notification widgets (I presume there will a few of them) to DOM.createUniqueId() - you won't end up hiding all the widgets at once ;)
Thanks for the comment.  This isn't final code by any means so there is definitely some cleanup but the contains idea is a good one.  The DOM.createUniqueId() method is probably a good idea as well but if the widget would close on the first click it wouldn't matter. I'm not sure what more code I could post.  I have subclasses that extend this one and add their own styles to make them look like an error or a warning. I'll edit my post with the most current version of the code with your suggestions though.
I've added more code.  I started adding the unique Id when the instance of the notification was created, but it still requires 2 clicks.  I must be missing something obvious.
  Maybe you should try GWTQuery    http://code.google.com/p/gwtquery/    instead try to integrate it natively.  
  Add a class to the element which you want to close on click, i.e.       Your javascript can auto-bind the function for any existing or dynamically created elements that match the selector:    
This is essentially what I'm trying to do except I can't hard code "close-on-click" in the ui.xml because then every instance of that widget would get the same class name and would close when any one of them was clicked. Thanks for the response though.
If the link is within the element you want to close, try this: $('a.close').live('click', function() {   $(this).parents('.class-to-close:first').remove(); });
  What are you exactly trying to achieve? Hide the widget based on the styles it has applied or it's id? (in the current version it seems you're mixing one with the other)     If the    ClickEvent    is firing to fast (which can be tested by adding a timeout before it), you can try wrapping it in a      DeferredCommand     .     The other possibility is that jQuery is crapping up ;) I had some weird issues when using callbacks in jQuery/Mootools - the reason was that these frameworks extend/change    function()    (among other things) - however, JSNI stuff is executed from a "clean" iframe, where there are no changes made by jQuery (that's why you have to reference to the main window via    $wnd   ). You can test if this is the issue here by defining, for example, a test function in your host HTML page and then passing it as the callback function in your    void doClick(String name)    method:       And my initial suggestion still holds - use      FocusPanel      as your main widget - trying to    correctly    implement    HasClickHandlers    (and similar interfaces) is a PITA from my experience and can lead to weird bugs and/or memory leaks.  
I want to create lots of notfications and be able to close them individually.  If I give them all the same DOM class name jquery will close all of them.  When you call addStyleName(name) in gwt it adds the name to the DOM class of that element.  The "." + name is so jquery pulls the name (.gwt-12-whatever) instead of ".name".  I appreciate the suggestion to use a FocusPanel but I can't do that.  I need it to be a Composite.  Also I don't believe it's speed of anything anymore as even when I create the name on initialization, way before it's clicked, I still have to click twice.
You misunderstood me about the `FocusPanel` - I wanted you to use it as your root/main panel in your UiBinder template (bound to the particular notification widget). Then you could just simply call `focusPanel.addClickHandler(whatever)` (instead of implementing `HasClickHandlers` yourself, etc). About the style names - instead of searching for an element by it's style names, it should be faster (and less error prone) to do it by id - since there shouldn't be an element with the same id twice in the DOM (that's why I recommended using `DOM.createUniqueId`).
How does one add an id through gwt?  I only know of the function addStyleName() which adds to the DOM class.
I think you should be able to do it via UiBinder in the template (I'm sure it works fine for HTML tags, but I'm not so sure about GWT Widgets), but I usually do it on the class side via `someWidget.getElement().setId(id)`, where `someWidget` is either your main widget (the root widget in UiBinder's template or the widget/panel you pass to `initWidget`) or just `this` - either way should work.
Thanks, that is nicer to add it as an id instead of a class.  The two click issue persists however.  I see what you mean about the FlowPanel. Though the code to add a click handler is really straight forward (return addDomHandler(handler, ClickEvent.getType());)
Well that did it.  I wrapped the HTMLPanel I was using inside of a FlowPanel and added the handler to that and it's working with a single click.  Still don't understand how or why but at least it's working. Thanks!!
Great to know you got it working :)
  Your code requires two clicks because you install the Jquery click binding event on the first click (via the onclick method) and so this last reacts a the second click. Change your code in something like that:       FYI, you can use GwtQuery (gwt clone of jQuery) and the code should look like that :       no need to use an uniqueId  
Counting the number of visitors for a web page - JavaScript and Struts
  I need to keep track of the number of visitors to a web page.      I have planned like this: on load of the home page, I will call a javascript    callCounter();   From javascript, I need then to call an action and update a record in database.     Please help me with this. How do i call the action?  I should be in the same home jsp after updating database.     Thanks in advance, Dhananjay  
  I'd suggest using a popular, ready-to-use counter solution, like:         clicky         google analytics         Otherwise you'll need to call a struts action via    ajax   .  
Can i call struts action via AJAX? I yes please let me kow how.. suggest a similar example if u kno.. I am a newbee to struts..
in the ajax tutorial I linked you just have to use the URL of your struts action. But I'd recommend using the ready-to-use solutions.
Hi Bozho, Thanks for your answer. One clarification is needed.i will call ajax function onload of home page. from there i will call struts action. Struts action execute method will return type ActionForward. But i need to come back to the same page. If jsp refreshes, body onload will execute again. please suggest.
i am a developer. i need to stick to requirement. is there any other simpla way to accomplish this? Im using Liferay portal,struts 1.x
you can just ignore the returned result.
So i in struts config, i will not hav forwards.. Thanks for ur time and suggestions.. im seeing clicky.. i will suggest it to my team. Thanks
Which version of liferay???
if you are using 4.2, then this link may be help you http://www.liferay.com/community/wiki/-/wiki/Main/Ajax+Toolkit;jsessionid=EEA2BF201510485B3BB337D6105E5708.node-1
liferay 5.2....
I need to have the statistics of a web site and generate reports. I am using liferay portlet. Is there any built in CMS for web analytics in Life ray? if yes please help how to configure it?
  I am using Google Anlytics now,     I don't know how to figure out the pagevisits based on individual pages of my website. Like number of visits to home page (URL for home page), number of visits to offer page and so on..    how do categorize the counts.  now the report looks lik this-  Visits   1,867 Pageviews   9,383  Pages/Visit   5.03  Bounce Rate   27.85%  Avg. Time on Site   00:05:36 %  New Visits   45.31%       Please give some suggestions  
How to call Struts1 Action from Ajax or JavaScript?
  I need to call an action on load of a JSP. To keep track of number of users who visited that page.     I hav an action VisitorCounterAction. Where il update the database. On load of the JSP im calling an ajax function callCounter();       I am getting an exception as:       Please help me with this. Or any other way to call the Action.  I can't reload the page as it'll call onload function again.     Thanks, Dj  
why the value of  "p_p_state" is "pop_up"?
Have you step debugged through your your action class code?  Where are you getting the null error?  I'm doing some AJAX calls using Struts 1.3 and I'm not doing anything special in my action classes so I'd guess your problem may have to do with the parameters you are sending in.
  You need to specify the correct url when calling the action. In your struts.xml file you would have created an action entry with a name. Let's say that name is VisitorCounterAction. Note that this is not the name of the Action class but the name you use in struts.xml.      Also you would have configured struts to recognize a particular extension. By default it is .do.     To request the action you will then use:  VisitorCounterAction.do.     So try:       Note also the double quotes around the URL as this is a String in the xmlHttp object's open() method.  
Hi, now the exception is this(Logger info in console): 20:44:32,153 INFO  [STDOUT] 2010-02-18 20:44:32,153 [http-localhost%2F127.0.0.1-8080-2] WARN  com.liferay.portal.util.PortalImpl - Current URL /web/guest/VisitorCounterAction.do generates exception: null
  The second parameter to the XMLHttpRequest object's    open    method should be a string that is the URL of the request. In your case it should be the Struts' Action Mapping that maps to your    VisitorCounterAction   . Something like:    
Hi John, My problem would be with my portal. I am using Liferay portal. it still gives the same exception. But i can see the alert msg at last. The exception is seen in console. I dono wat to do, it is not going to Action.
Can you please tell me which Jar should be included to make my application to have AJAX, I am using Struts 1.3 version. I have got struts2-dojo-plugin.jar, does that work for Struts 1.3 Version?
  If you are using Liferay 4.2, then this link might help you (http://www.liferay.com/web/guest/community/wiki/-/wiki/Main/Ajax+Toolkit). Liferay 4.2 have own set of javascript API for doing AJAX functionality(Implemented in jquery).   
Can you recommend a mapping API for commercial use?
  The requirements I have have to do with being able to print routes between many nodes, be able to query the distances between nodes for best possible route calculation and to show custom icons on the maps.     It is important to have a mapping source which is accurate as far as roads and streets are concerned.     I have investigated open street maps, but i am afraid that it may not be entirely accurate. Any suggestion of commercial library/API would be appreciated (as long as it's intuitive to use and does not lock you in functionality wise)     I started off with Google Maps API for investigative purpose. I would be using the end application internally and would be for paid (so it means if I were to use Google maps, I would be paying for their commercial licence which is quite a big sum. And I only need maps for select areas , starting in northern Europe)     It would be nice to have a maps API which can be easily integrated in a Spring-MVC based system (so a JavaScript or Java based API)  
I have found another service which seems to be much more sophisticated  http://www.nn4d.com/site/global/build/web_services/routing/map24routingservice/fetchroute.jsp
    Bing Maps Platform    (previously Microsoft Virtual Earth) should be a cheaper option than google maps for commercial use, can print routes between nodes, supports distance calculation and provides a JS API.  
I actually contacted both Google Europe and Microsoft Europe to get a quote for their commercial service fees last month. They had only 1 Euro difference (but these quotes change all the time)
@geoaxis You can negotiate with Microsoft while you can't with Google. At least, this was my experience 2 years ago. Things might have changed since then of course.
  It may be worth talking to    Drawlive   . I've only used their distance finder API, but they also have mapping and route generation. The integration for distance finding is via SOAP, and I used Axis generate the client. Bing Maps as suggested before me may also be an option: one of my customers chose them because the entry fee was much less than Google Maps.  
  We used    CloudMade    for our most recent map-based app. Their data is sourced from OpenStreetMap, but we've been impressed with the quality of the maps. OSM is something of a moving target, since the maps are continuously being updated, but always for the better.     CloudMade offer a commercial service on top of that data (i.e. SLA, support, etc). Small company, eager to please. Makes a refreshing change from dealing with Google and Bing, who are too big to care. They're adding new features all the time, and were happy to change their implementation priorities when we asked them to.     Services include a javascript API, as well as a geocoder, and a simple static map web service, all of which we use from our Spring-based app.  
How To Convert Javascript Functions to JQuery
  I'm not familier with Javascript, and I have to convert a Project's Javascript codes to Jquery scripts.     ofcourse I'm not project leader or something like it, I'm just elaborating that this process may has what kind of issues and may face with what kind of needness ?     So if you know any solution to convert Javascript Functions to Jquery ones please help me know what should be considered .  
Why there's a need of conversion...?
i think you just need to make ur own js framework to be reusable dont need to make it a jquery funcs basicly cause jquery is from javascript so where is the conversion
  Nope, I am afraid there is no such converter, even if there was you would still have to do some changes yourself. I would suggest you to go through      Jquery docs      to know the differences and implement right away. Thanks  
  Adding jQuery to an existing project with JavaScript on it shouldn't break any existing JavaScript unless you're using a conflicting framework such as prototype, in which case you can often get away with both being present simply by setting jQuery to noConflict mode.     There's certainly no need to rewrite working JavaScript functions into jQuery if they're working fine as they are unless your primary goal is to improve efficiency / write shorter code or even if it's simply because the JavaScript has become too cumbersome to maintain.     In summary if you just want to add some new jQuery functionality to a website; why not just add it and leave the existing JavaScript as is?  
We want to improve eficiency of our website and also as its a large website, in a long time some developer will work with that, and as Jquery coming to be a flexible and shorter code. we are looking for a way to convert our javascripts to jquery scripts. Also some ofour scripts became a add-in or plug-in for jquery which help us have flexible codes.
That's fair enough, unfortunately there's no converter to perform such a task, you'll have to rewrite them yourself. I'd suggest just reading up on the jQuery documentation and about the various shortcuts jQuery provides you with to get around longer bits of your JavaScript code.
Don't expect converting plain JavaScript functions to jQuery to make your site more efficient. In many cases the extra overhead will make it slower. jQuery is about compact code, not necessarily performance as such.
I agree entirely with @bobince.
  JQuery is essentially a set of JavaScript functions that make some JavaScript tasks easier.     If you have an existing JavaScript project it will work without any conversion, but you might decide that certain sections will be shorter and more maintainable if you take advantage of certain JQuery functions.     I don't know of any conversion utilities that will do this for you, but the nice thing is that you can decide which bits you want to convert. You can make this decision based on time available and know that your project will work regardless of how much jQuery you decide to use.  
Sharethis Customization
  I imagine its a bit of javascript but how do you have the ShareThis widget go straight to the email page like on Mashable?  
It would be helpful if you could post code examples and links on what you are talking about. Not everyone has worked with "the shareThis widget."
I agree with Pekka.  I have no idea what ShareThis is ._.
  Try changing      span class="st_sharethis"     /span     to         This link can help    
  I just added ShareThis to Colorbox.  Here is my code.     Add this to your jquery.colorbox.js file (uncompresses/unminified) around line 360 inside the publicMethod.init function just after the $wrap object is defined.       Add this code to your colorbox.css to align a vertical shareThis bar to left side of the browser when a colorbox modal is displayed.       Get a ShareThis button from sharethis.com and you'll paste code like this into the pages that launch the colorbox.    
i tried your code and honestly not sure what you are trying to do here. Each time the colorbox is called, you want to show the sharethis widget? If so, that is not at all what this question is about.
You are right, this wasn't answering the question.  Two of the comments mentioned not understanding the context of ShareThis so I was providing an example.
Restrict attaching big files using Javascript
  How can we restrict users from attaching file bigger than specified size (to say 20MB). I do have a check at the server side to show errors in case of big files received on the server but that happens too late.     I want to achieve something like gmail, where you get a quick alert specifying        "This file exceeds the 25MB attachment limit. Sorry."       Thanks!     Pratik  
  Javascript does not have access to this kind of information, but a tool like swfupload can give you nice javascript api's to access this information with flash.       http://swfupload.org/    
  Use      JQuery File Upload      plugin.  
This, of course, has a jquery dependency. It also uses flash to detect the file sizes (much like swfupload), so just be warned.
@Alex: yes you are right just posted it because that's what i use it for the same purpose.
  In general, JavaScript should not be used for any restrictions of user actions since it is executed on the client side and can be manipulated. Flash suffers from the same problem.     Any restrictions should be implemented on the server side.  
He stated that he uses serverside validation to assure that the file is the correct size, but he wants the user experience benefit of not waiting for the entire upload to find that out. The path for graceful degradation is clear and already implemented.
Yes, but a user should be told that their 4GB attachment is too big before they spend 97 hours uploading it!
struts validator client side, alertbox without message
  I use commons-validator v1.2 specification-version : 1.0 whereas my spec-version for struts is : 1.1. Although everything works fine except the message display in the alert box. The alert box display case are relevant.     By instance this jsp field :       I put in validation.xml :        related to       and in struts config the plugin is declared :       In xxx.resources.ApplicationResources I have the properties file : ApplicationResources.properties which contains:        It seems to me that everything is complete, so I'm not sure where to search now, except in a problem of version between validator and struts. I 'm looking for the message : "Le champ nom est obligatoire."  
  I add depends = "" to        then the error.nom message appears in the alert box. I don't solve the problem completely yet but at least it works with        Though this solutino isn't generic for all my form fields required. Instead of adding the field name to the generic message I have redondance of "Le champ" "est obligatoire" in my .properties  
  definitive answer :     I needed to use struts tag : html:text etc. to benefit of this mecanism.     Then, I modify the validation rules :       And it works fine!  
GWT DatePicker Locale
  is possible to set a Locale for com.google.gwt.user.datepicker.client.DatePicker? I need to show the days and the weeks in italian style.     thanks  
  Here is a    datepicker widget    for gwt that handle    locale   .     The    demo    for italian locale.     I hope it helps you.  
  The javadoc for      DatePicker      has an example that should get you started - you just have to format the date using      DateTimeFormat      in a    ValueChangeHandler    assigned to your    DatePicker   :       This will format the date in your default locale - if you want to change it to something else, there'a    whole section    on how you can do it in the GWT docs.  
  Locales in GWT are set global.     You can set the local e.g. in a meta tag in your html file:       and you have to add the locale to the modulefile *.gwt.xml:       The properties are defined here:     com.google.gwt.i18n.client.constants.DateTimeConstantsImpl_xx.properties     For more, read the documentation.  
Efficient way to implement a client multiple file upload service
      What is an efficient way to implement a multiple file client upload service? Are there any popular libraries for that? Basically I'm looking at a Web view, served a client, that would allow them to upload files: i.e browse their file system and choose say up to 6 files.         Is implementing the above service better than a single file upload-service. i.e allowing only one upload at a time? If so what is an efficient way to implement that or again what popular libraries are there to use.         I'm building a Java Dynamic Web to be deployed on Tomcat.     Thanks  
It should be very easy to do in spring 3. Look at http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/3.0.0.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/html/mvc.html#mvc-multipart this worked great for us.
  If you're looking to do multiple file uploads on the web, I would strongly recommend    SWFUpload.     It's totally customizable, and it can use whatever back end technology you'd like.  Take a look at some of the demos on the site for some use cases involving multiple files at once.  I've only used it in one project so far, but it beats some of the other third party upload controls I've used hands down.  
Thanks, well mostly allowing users to upload files via a Java Web Application. I'm also considering the tradeoffs of allowing users to, browse their local file system and upload multiple files, say (6 files allowed at a time) or perhaps doing so one file at a time
  If your clients can use modern builds of browsers, you can use multiple file upload field support that mozilla/webkit offers. Otherwise, YUIUpload from latest YUI3. Much cleaner/faster/easier than SWFUpload.  
I've never used the YUI uploader, but from the example (http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/examples/uploader/uploader-simple-button.html) it sure doesn't look any faster or easier to implement :)
Their documentation is whack, but code is written by other folks who are very talented. Trust me, digging through their docs will pay off. SWFUploader is ancient.
How to call jquery trigger from gwt?
    i tried the above ,but there is no error in firebug or gwt hosted mode console(so i cannot know whether the code is success or not). may i know is this the correct way to call jquery trigger?  but when i put alert() in bind('connect'), it was not called      inside .js file    
  I had similar issues when using jQuery UI with GWT - no errors in console/dev mode, yet the code did not behave like I wanted. The reason was that jQuery (and such frameworks) extend/change many core elements of JavaScript and expect it to stay that way - however, GWT code (meaning, also JSNI stuff) is executed from a "clean" iframe (so that no external frameworks can mess with the language and cause some weird errors in GWT, that's why you have to reference to the main window via    $wnd   ).     I'd suggest moving your    doConnect    function to the host page (or external js file linked to the host page) and instead just call that function from your JSNI stub:       Or provide helper functions that will return Arrays, etc, from the host page, so that they include all the changes that jQuery made and expects.  
  It's a bit late for this answer, but your original code did not work due to a simple mistake: You have properly used    $win    instead of    window    but a few characters later you have used    document    instead of    $doc    :)    
Java applet or JavaScript for making an online form?
  I don't know what I'm talking about. Please tell me what I need to know. ^_^" I would like to create an online test that sends the results to a certain email address, but I'm not sure how to begin. I think it's possible to make textboxes and stuff with both Java and applets, or JavaScript, right? Which should I try working on?     I also want the test to change each time it's ran, most likely based on a .txt or something that tells how to change the questions and answers. I'm not really sure how to make that work yet, either... I guess, using functions to say how to change things based on variables I use in a different file. Can javascript even read stuff from other places? So maybe it needs to be the applet thingy?  
  You shouldn't use a Java applet for forms. It's bad for accessibility.     JavaScript can indeed read files from remote locations, such as via Ajax. You should use an Ajax toolkit like http://jquery.com to help you. :-)  
    Make forms with HTML.    You can read the .txt file using AJAX and Javascript. (Trying to work out the native AJAX system is messy, though.    jQuery    has a nice AJAX system for that :D) Alternatively, you can use the back-end system to generate the HTML for the form instead of having Javascript populate it.     Actually processing the forms will require knowledge of a back-end system; neither Java applets nor client-side Javascript will help you here. For a simple script like this, I'd recommend    PHP   , though it will take some muddling through if you really don't know what you're doing.  
Good answer, but no upvote because of PHP recommendation. :-P
PHP's quick to get up and running for something small. For a larger app, I wouldn't recommend it, but it looks like it'll only be handling two or three actions here.
  You can create the form with basic HTML.  There's a good tutorial on it    here   .  The form must post to a server-side script (the most commong of which is    php   ).  That server side script will handle saving the data, emailing it, etc.  
  You should probably use HTML + JavaScript for the forms, along with a server-side scripting platform like php, ASP.NET, et al.  
can you explain what a server-side scripting platform is?
@Asj: I suggest checking out Chris T's answer... The php part in Chris' answer resides on the server.
  Use HTML     Javascript. There is a nice tutorial for both in    here   .  
  Here's a quick example using HTML + PHP (forgoing javascript for simplicity)     HTML Page (index.html):       thanks.php:       HTML is a markup language used to define your document and forms. This is used by your browser to create the webpage seen by your user.     PHP is a server-sided language which runs on your server, not the users, that accesses data such as information from forms, databases, rss feeds, etc and then processes the data (for example mailing the form results to you) before sending the user a HTML document (like one that says thank you for you submition, latest blog posts from a database, etc).     Find a nice free host and upload these files to see them in action.   
+1 Good answer :)
I've done a little stuff with JavaScript before but nothing with PHP... What I was thinking about was having a little form for checking username and passwords, and if it checks out, store that info for later and load a larger form. The larger form's content relies on a saved file made with a Java program. I can do that with PHP, right?
Yes that's very possible
Extjs with google Ajax Language Api
  Can we use google AJAX Language API with EXTjs? I have tried example for translation, I have one html file:       and typemarathi.js     google.load("elements", "1", {             packages: "transliteration"           });       it works fine. But if I write the textfield in extjs       and try to pass firstname (name attribute to    control.makeTransliteratable([firstname])   ) then it does not work... it says "invalid id error". But if I pass->(html textfiled name to it)    control.makeTransliteratable([myname])    it works fine.  
yes, you can. why would you think not? this question requires more elaboration.
Multiple ?'s or !'s in succession = auto downvote
    Yes   we   can!    
  I don't see why you would not be able to -- actually, I'm pretty sure you can, like you can use it with other frameworks, like jQuery or Prototype.       (Did you run into any kind of specific trouble ? If so, you might want to edit your question, to provide us with more details)    
  It's unclear to me based on your code, but if you are passing the    string value    'firstname' (with quotes) to the Google lib, then it should work fine I would assume.  However, if you are passing an object reference (which it looks like in your example) then you would have to pass the underlying field reference, not the Ext TextField object reference (like    myTextField.getEl()   ).  
Looking for a good, practical example how to use JQuery or YUI with Java web application
  I am looking for an extensive example or, the most preferably, an open source project with a nice, modern, ajax-enabled user interface which is using JQuery or YUI on top of Java web application - it can be full Java EE application, JSF only, Spring MVC application, anything.     I would like to learn what are best practices to create such applications. In particular how to efficiently make use of the JavaScript library with a chosen Java web UI technology: JSP, JSF, Spring MVC, etc.     I am not particularly interested in simple demo examples, simple things I can figure out myself, I need something bigger so I would be able to investigate overall UI creation strategy, how clean the code is, how difficult were particular features to apply, etc.  
  Many jQuery components are actually being wrapped inside different components from jsf libs (like RichFaces).      As I understand (I only worked for few months with jsf and so I'm still a newbie) it's counted a bad practice to mix jQuery UI with clear jsf (with components) ui.     I can only guess that if you want to use jQuery UI with your jsf then you probably need to create custom jsf component and wrap chosen jQuery component.  
  The best example i can give you is GOOGLE.  They use all the stuff you talked about.  Unfortunatly GOOGLE will not give any part ot their code.  
Do you think google use YUI? I thought they are too proud not to do this.
Sure they use it. Ithink also they support the YUI team
Google (on their homepage) do not use YUI, not even DOJO
  You will find plenty of ways to build web apps, and I'm not sure there's a clear winner. In the end it is just a matter of personal taste or related to your knowledge background.     My advice anyway when you will look at them is to    consider a clear separation between the frontend and the backend, and build a flexible UI    (in the model of iGoogle or netvibes)     The frontend, presents the information in a human format. The browser code is JS, HTML and CSS. May be flash if you really want.     While the backend handle the authentication/security and the business logic and send or receive only JSON or XML messages.     I did that before with SAP serving XML and the browser rendering it with XSLT and Javascript.     And now in my current project Erlang serving JSON and the browser rendering it with a    JS template engine    and JS.     In both cases, this is giving really responsive web apps. As you optimise the network usage.     And finally about the    flexible UI   . I mean think in widgets instead of a monolithic app. It is not easy to get, but once it runs it is an amazing way of building web apps.      Here is a    small video    we just released to highlight this.  
  My personal favorite is jQuery on top of Spring-MVC.  SpringSource.org has put together many great sample applications demonstrating the Spring-MVC framework, and the "mvc-ajax" project includes some great jQuery examples of how to generate ajax requests to the server that returns json to the browser.       The subversion repository for these projects is    here   .  
run javascript at serverside
  Is there any way to run one same instance of JavaCcript(jQuery) on the server side and call it from a Java method?  :)      I am interested to know whether it is possible to run it on the server side (not clientside), like Google app engine.  
  Jaxer by Aptana is the first Ajax server.  It has a javascript capability for the server-side.  Whether it does what you need is for you to decide.       http://jaxer.org/    
    Rhino   . Apparently it supports a few javascript libraries, including jquery.    http://ejohn.org/blog/bringing-the-browser-to-the-server/    
How do you use Java to call the Rhino Javascript interpreter?
  is there any example on using java method to call rhino-javascript function and return it back to java?  The only example i found for rhino is only typing command on the rhino shell.   
  Sure, here's the    Rhino embedding tutorial   .  I've done this in the past and it works very well.  You'll want to scroll down to    this section   .  
where to save a jpeg file from an applet
  I have a java applet that creates a JPEG file.    I want to pass that file to a Javascript where it can display and print it.    The only way I can think of doing this is to save the jpeg to a temporary storage area on the user's computer and then pass the path of the file to the javascript which picks it up and displays it.   This raises a two questions:         Where should the applet store the file.   If you suggest the temporary internet files folder, then how do I find that path to that folder?         Is there a better way to do this?   Can I pass the JPEG directly from java to javascript without first writing out to a disk?           Thank you in advance for your help.  
  Can't you just have an applet that displays the picture and prints it?  
      To store file on users's machine your applete should be signed, and user should give necessary permissions to your applet (through special dialog window which is shown automatically).         Read this    article    about modifying DOM from applet           Another approach is to save your image on the server (pass it from your applet to the server) and then reload page (or use Ajax, but in this case you probably have to make ajax calls every few seconds to check if the image is available on the server).      
  I don't think it'd be possible to do this in IE before IE8 (and it's wimpy even in IE8), but in other browsers your applet could make the image data available to Javascript (please don't say, "a Javascript"; it's like saying, "a FORTRAN" or "a Java") and then from Javascript you could create an      img      tag with a "data URI".  See this reference:    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_URI_scheme    
Joomla - calling the username with javascript
  I am working on a simple game to add to my joomla site, done in html/javascript.  I want to be able to track user scores, I figure the easiest way to do that is to have the scores saved by username... but I can't figure out how to have joomla provide the javascript with the username?  
  You can get all of the information about the currently logged in user from the    JUser    object. To get it and store it in a variable named    $user   , use this code:       From this object, you can get the username, id, email address, and other information about the user:       Then you can call JavaScript to extract the information from HTML. Once you're ready to record the high score, you could make an AJAX-style call pointing to a Joomla component.  
Programatically adding a sort condition to a table in BIRT using JS
  I am attempting to write some script that simplifies table sorting and have been getting quite close but am now wondering if I have found a bug...or have just misunderstood limitations.     So my relevant code:       I am getting a NullPointerException on line 164 in the class Listing: org.eclipse.birt.report.engine.script.internal.element.Listing, in the method removeSortConditions...       So the above implies 'designElementImpl' is null, having looked further at the source it seemed to imply that to instantiate the 'table' object, the following constructor was used:       And moving up the heirarchy of super classes, it implies that in the constructor of DesignElement, the following is returning null:       Any one any thoughts? Am I just not able to what I am trying to do?     Thanks in advance.     EDIT: Should probably add; I'm using BIRT 2.5.1.  
  I think I have this sorted now...I created a [simpler] new report without library dependencies and sorting is now working correctly.     I posted on another forum as well, so if anyone wants more details see    BIRT Exchange Forums   .     Cheers.  
SmartGWT, appending HTML to HTMLPane
  I am currently working with SmartGWT and have been trying to obtain a way of including a panel such as the gwt Standard VerticalPanel into a smart GWT window. The reason for the VerticalPanel is that I can append widgets to the verticalpanel object without having to re-set the entire content, for example:       Now to append I can only see that I can do:       which is not what I need.     The problem arises after I've added the VerticalPanel, I cannot select any text within the window even with the 'setCanSelectText' method called with true as the parameter. Below is a short example I put together:       I am quite suprised however that HTMLPane doesn't allow me to append without resetting the entire contents.      Any advice would be appreciated however I need to do be able to 'append' to a panel. I don't particularly like the idea of using a vertical panel however I need to either find a method of allowing the aforementioned or allowing me to allow the verticalpanel to be accessible, i.e. selecting the text.     Many thanks     Christopher.  
  The    VerticalPanel    uses a html    table    to create it's content, and most likely not something you want in this case. In general, in HTML it's not possible to add plain HTML in addition to existing content, because of the xml like nature. For example if you have the following html      div   some text   /div     . If you want to add text the point to add must be relative to the    div    tag, it's not possible to add something for example between    some    and    text    without reinserting that whole text.     In your case you might want to use    FlowPanel    (which is a    div   ) and add the HTML with    InlineHTML    (which wraps the HTML with a    span   ). In case you don't want the    span    wrapped you would have to reinsert the text as in your    HTMLPane    example.  
Thankyou for the advice, I found the solution upon asking on the smart GWT website. http://forums.smartclient.com/showthread.php?p=39351#post39351
  You need to be setting canSelectText in the right place, not on the Window as a whole (which would include the header and icons), but just on the element where selection is allowed.     So two options:     1) when you add a plain GWT widget to a SmartGWT container it's auto-wrapped with a WidgetCanvas.  You can wrap it yourself and setCanSelectText() on the WidgetCanvas.       http://www.smartclient.com/smartgwtee/javadoc/com/smartgwt/client/widgets/WidgetCanvas.html       2) subclass Canvas and override getInnerHTML() to return a DIV or other element with a known ID, and then use GWT's low-level DOM manipulation APIs to manipulate it's content.  
I asked this question on the Smart GWT website and it was answered for me there with the exact response. If you're the user 'isomorphic', thank you for the assistance.
Thankyou anyway! I may have sounded a little ungrateful to your response there but that was not the intention at all. :)
That's a shared account, but yes it was me that time. Wouldn't hurt to label the answer here as correct regardless :)
  Issue was solved by isomorphic on:       http://forums.smartclient.com/showthread.php?p=39351#post39351    
How can I access Java String methods from a String variable passed to JavaScript?
  I'm using the Java Scripting Engine (in Java 1.6) to dynamically evaluate some expressions in my Java program. I can pass my Java objects from Java to JavaScript, and call their methods, but this stops working correctly when I pass String objects.     For example, in my Java I can define a class, JavaClass, with a doSomething method. I can then call the doSomething method when I pass a JavaClass object to JavaSCript.     However, if I make a String object in Java, and pass it to JavaScript, I get an error when I try to call the endsWith method on it, in JavaScript.     My code is as follows :-       The doSomething method is called correctly, but it can't find endsWith :-       It's as if my Java String object gets converted to a JavaScript string object - I can use the length property of a JavaScript String, for instance.     I can add my own endsWith function to my JavaClass class, which simply calls the String endsWith, and this works correctly - but is not nice... :(     If it is being converted, can I stop this happening ? If it's something else, am I doing something wrong ? Is there a way to fix it ?     Thanks ! :)  
  Change the last line to this.  By default Strings are converted between Java and JS types automatically.  Hence, you must forcefully convert    myString    into a Java string within your JS code..    
Need to get a path location via a web page
  In firefox 2 I was able to get the path using Browse - I use the path in our project to then write out files to that location. So now that browse does not get the path, does anyone know a way for a user to go to a directory and have the path returned via a web page so I could pass that along to the server for processing?       execCommand does not work in firefox and had limites save type capaility, and entering by hand is not a useable option. Thanks.    
Can you be more specific? Are you asking users to pick a file from a directory on their computer so they can upload it to the server?
The user selects a file using the browser. I then create a new file, add it to that directory and based on the path (that I now don't have), move that entire directory to another location for processing (ingesting) by some automated system.
  The ability to see a complete client file path is now considered a security risk, and all modern browsers prevent you from seeing it (both via Javascript and via information sent back to the server on the form POST).  
Not what I hoped for, but thanks for your assistance
  This is not possible with HTML/JavaScript. In HTML you can at highest use      input type="file"      to select a file, but not a folder or so. In JS you can't do anything at the local disk file system, let alone with a      input type="file"      element in the DOM tree. You're prohibited by security restrictions (you as being an enduser would of course not like if websites are able to do stuff at the local disk file system unaskingly).     You can only do that with a small application which runs straight at the client machine. For example a (signed!)    applet    which is basically just a piece of Java code served by a webpage which runs right at the client machine. You can communicate between applet and servlet using    java.net.URL    and consorts. Then, in the applet use    Swing's    JFileChooser      to have a folder or file selection dialogue.       Update   : by the way, MSIE and some other ancient browsers sends the full client-side disk file system path along the      input type="file"      to the server side. This is technically wrong (only the filename+extension should have been sent) and completely superfluous. This information is worthless in the server side, because it cannot access the file using the normal    java.io.File    stuff (unless both the server and the client runs at physically the    same    machine which of course wouldn't occur in real world). The normal way to get the uploaded file is to parse the multipart/form-data request body (for which one would normally use    Apache Commons FileUpload    or the Servlet 3.0 provided      HttpServletRequest#getParts()     ).  
Thank you for your help and advice!
I think that IE8 might "munge" the path, but I'm not sure; it definitely does in the client (i.e., when Javascript looks at the "value" of a file input). The way it does it is pretty funny of course.
@Pointy: IE8 also falls in category "MSIE". Long live Commons IO: http://commons.apache.org/io/api-1.4/org/apache/commons/io/FilenameUtils.html#getName%28java.lang.String%29
well I do all my file uploads nowadays via Stripes, which wraps CommonsIO pretty cleanly. I basically don't have to mess with it at all.
@Pointy: Stripes is just another nice lightweight MVC framework which takes all the nasty work from your hands ;) Kudos!
Include a dynamically created GWT widget in a different Web page
  I have the following requirement: Based on some user input, I need to generate a HTML form that the user can embed on a separate Web application. I thought on doing this with GWT since I'm familiar with it.     I'm clear on the input parsing and widget generation part. What I don't know how to do is how to export the root widget's (most probably a Panel) compiled code, so the user can take the code and include it in some other page.     Something like:       Then the user copies the displayed code in some HTML file:       Requiring a particular      div id="required_id" /      in the HTML file is not a problem. Or maybe javascript code is not enough, and the user is required to download a zip file with js and html files, copy those to a directory and reference them in the page. This again is not a problem.     Is my use case possible with GWT?     Thanks in advance.  
  I'd say... no :) Mainly because when a GWT application is started it first runs the bootstrap file that in turn chooses the particular permutation for the current browser. So the code that you would get might include some stuff that wouldn't work in all browsers. This    might    be side stepped by providing some sort of "lightweight" boostrap file/method to download but I doubt that would work.     Besides, the JS code you get is heavily optimized (and with GWT 2.0 the JS file contains JS, CSS and even images), for example, when possible strings are put into variables for performance reasons - but these variables are usually grouped together and put in one place in the compiled JS file, so even if you could somehow get to the code that creates your form, it could contain references to some undefined variables. In other words, the compiled code is meant to be used as a whole.     A more "elegant" solution (and more importantly, feasible with GWT ;)) is to export the form to some sort of abstract form/language, maybe JSON, so that you could parse/recreate it easily in the other web app:         Hmm, I just thought of a possible hack.. With the right use of    code splitting    it    might    be possible to separate the code responsible for the form creation - but that would make it    maybe    easier to "export", it's not a complete solution (and I wouldn't recommend it.. just an interesting/possible hack).  
Thanks for the insight. I wouldn't want to get into convoluted hacks to get it to work, but the JSON idea looks promising. I just wanted to be sure if there was anything in GWT that would allow me to do it directly.
Does something like Sprocket exist for Java
  Sprocket is a Ruby library for managing JavaScript dependencies. It makes it possible to declare dependencies in specially formatted comments in the JavaScript files, and have all the  required files concatenated server side. (Read more here:    http://getsprockets.org/   )     Where I work, we have a real need for such a framework, but it has to be in the form of a Java library.     Does such a thing exist? What other solutions have you come up with to manage JavaScript dependencies?  
  You can also use    juicer    to merge javascript files although it's also written in ruby.   Another option that, I suppose, will suit you is using    combiner    by Nicholas C. Zakas if you do not need all the features of juicer and sprockets. It is pretty simple, written in java (   .jar   ) and the source can be found in author's    repository   . You can also fork the source in order to tune it according to your needs.  
I had a look at combiner. It seems to do exactly what I am looking for :-) The source is available on GitHub: http://github.com/nzakas/combiner/tree/master/src/net/nczonline/web/combiner/
@KaptajnKold Combiner isn't exact by the looks of it. Doing it at runtime is so much better than at build time.
  Such a feature exists in the Wicket framework. It is a component-oriented web framework for Java that is gaining momentum these days.       Wicket    lets you define header resources in your components (eg, Javascript scripts, CSS files, etc.) and combines them at runtime, removing duplicates.  
Does this feature in Wicket come as a standalone library? We already have a large web app which uses Tapestry/Spring/Hibernate.
Unfortunately, I think it doesn't.
  You may have a look at this    webutilities    as well.  
  I know this was answered a long time ago but my vote is for JAWR!  
  You can run sprockets inside a java web application using jruby. It is not too difficult. You could disable sprockets in production and only use statically compiled assets if you are worried about performance. It's also possible with Servlet-3.0 to completely disable sprockets in production and have the same web.xml or you could do dodgy things with a proxy context listener and proxy servlet filter if you are concerned about having to load the jruby runtime and sprockets even when you are not using it.     I have an example here:    https://github.com/benmmurphy/java_sprockets    
  Yes, it does exist and its even richer in functionality    https://github.com/QubitProducts/miniMerge   .     Ii is also very fast and very small (few kb)! All you need is java.     I use it in my all projects, it is not only for JS, I use it also with CSS and HTML.     One awesome thing is that you can specify file or directory as input and filter contents based on tagging!  
Disable back button in GWT
  Is there a way to disable the Back button in a browser (basically clearing the History token stack) in GWT? Once I browse to a certain page in my application I want to make sure that the user can't use the back button to go back, but only be able to use links on the page to navigate the site.   
If you have to disable the back button, you're doing it wrong. Well-written Ajax toolkits are designed to handle the back button correctly (so that they will call your application's callbacks---with the same effect as clicking your navigational links).
There is a lot of duplicates about this : http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1864706/disable-back-button/1864709#1864709, http://stackoverflow.com/questions/961188/disable-browsers-back-button
@Michael: Yep, and still with the basic message of "don't"---as it should be. :-) @OP: See http://www.useit.com/alertbox/990530.html, item 1.
  You cannot disable a button just intercept it and change its return to something the browser does not understand.      This removes the history:       To understand it see:    http://groups.google.com/group/google-web-toolkit/browse_thread/thread/8b2a7ddad5a47af8/154ec7934eb6be42?lnk=gst   q=disable+back+button#154ec7934eb6be42       However, I would recommend not doing this because your it goes against good UI practices. Instead you should figure out a way that the back button does not cause a problem with your code.  
    That is not a fool proof solution.  In fire fox I can press the back button and the    onWindowClosing    method is never invoked. The reason is that I have used    History.newItem()    and since history exists the back button or backspace buttons simply navigate through the browser history.     So....fix that :)  
  I found a way to make GWT ignore the back-button: Just add historyitem x if no historyitem was set and do nothing on x.         set a historyitem on startup           in the ValueChangeHandler of History add the following:        
  Put this in your index.html file     window.open('html page(For example trial.html)', 'Name of the desired site', width='whatever you want',height='whatever you want', centerscreen=yes, menubar=no,toolbar=no,location=no, personalbar=no, directories=no,status=no, resizable=yes, dependent=no, titlebar=no,dialog=no');  
  Call the method below in the    onModuleLoad()   .    
Plot Equations using Javascript (or anything client side)
  Is there any library which I can use to plot mathematical equations? (Preferably using javascript, could me in Java also; or anything clientside)  
  Have you looked at Flot?    http://code.google.com/p/flot/    
excellent library for graphing
  How about    JMathsTool    
  I've seen some pages that use    http://omnipotent.net/jquery.sparkline/    and they look pretty good for Cartesian coordinates. It's also simple to use and works on most browsers.  
Java 6 ScriptEngine and JSON.parse problem
  The Rhino release that is included in Java 6 ScriptEngine does not have a JSON parser.  I've tried including crockfords    JSON2.js    in my script on the    scriptengine.eval()   .  When I try to do the    JSON.parse   , it ends up giving me a script error that    .replace    is an unknown function.    .replace    is referenced several places in JSON2, and it works fine inside a browser (IE7, IE8, FF3).  Anyone see this and have a suggestion?  
  Thanks for loooking at this.  I solved it.  Pilot Error.  Simply put, the string I was passing to JSON.parse was    not    a correct JSON string.  It was a java object toString().  So, the error message was unhelpful, but I was giving bad content.    
Updating a JSP with messages received in Java (writing a messenger client)
  this is my first question here - hope I'll get started on a positive note.       Refrasing    (since I am still stuck): I am writing a IM client via the XMPP protocol to connect to a    Openfire    server. For this I am using the    Smack API   . There are two ways of checking if new messages have been received:      registering a listener with the XMPP connection,    addListener   . The downside here is that I can't make changes to the JSP page inside the listener (only final variables are allowed inside an inner class).    defining a packet collector and    polling for new results   . I want to avoid polling too often so that's why I am waiting for a new message when there is one. Also, how would the JSP/Javascript look in this case? as one does not know the time interval to refresh the iframe where the messages are displayed.         So the bottom line here would be receiving messages without constant polling. I would also like to stick to the Smack API as I see it pretty well documented. My problem lies more in the JSP department. Any expertise on this would really help!  
  Not sure if thats the best way to write a client side listener.      I would suggest using    AJAX   , in that way you make all your work on the server side, and an Ajax component keeps polling the data from the server.   
Actually I am using Ajax here in the way I am filling up the div with the messages that I receive. As for polling for data - the API that I'm using does not support that, which makes sense to me, as when you're connected to a IM server, you are the one that gets the messages. But maybe I misunderstood you, can you be more concrete?
I agree with medopal and go with an AJAX solution, creating a separate page to act as a service which is polled using JavaScript function from setTimeout(). Whenever polled I would have the page return a JOSN object with the last records up to a given ID or timestamp for an elegant and robust solution. Unfortunately you are stuck with polling in practice as keeping a streaming connection open in JS is not really practical (technically possible, but requires advanced ninja skills to implement in a robust way due to varying browser/proxy/web filter software timeout limits).
The polling practice is indeed the bottleneck to a good approach. But will keep in mind the JSON way of doing it though. Thanks anyway.
  A small note on your problem description: your Listener don't have to be a inner class. (But that might not help you at all)  
Hmm, how can you go around implementing the PacketListener[1] interface then? [1]http://www.igniterealtime.org/builds/smack/docs/latest/javadoc/org/jivesoftware/smack/PacketListener.html
  Take a look at    Comet   . Maybe it can help or at least give you some ideas. Check the    Implementations    and    Alternatives    sections.     Cheers  
Reset Java Applet on Reload
  I need to quit firefox and restart it in order for the applet to be refreshed...  its anoying since i'm still programming it an the class files changes... am i missing some codes which makes it unable to refresh the applet and still take the one from the cache???     So I have a .jar applet in my website, a simulation game that spawns army whenever user clicks on the screen... however whenever I refresh the page, the previous army are still there on the screen.. I want it to be refreshed (as if we're just starting to run the application the first time).     Any Suggestions?     I'd really appreciate it     Thank you....  
reloading the page not working??
  Each time you build a new Jar applet add a build number to it, eg    applet.jar?build=123    or    build123/applet.jar   . This is good practice for deployment too as it removes all cache concerns and this can probably be simply automated by your build solution eg    Ant   .     In addition it is worth considering using the    separate_jvm    tag, detailed    here   . Available since 1.6 update 10. It will ensure a new JVM each refresh which prevents you worrying about plug-in idiosyncrasies eg out of memory exceptions due to a lot of refreshes.  
How would I debug this IE7 issue?
  Problem:           Conditions:     IE7, SP2, latest flash/java. Only reproducible on one machine.     Observations:     Smaller than a javascript alert box, and seems to be generated when a swf on my web page loads. The dialog is modal, however, like an alert box.     Issues:     I've tried matching the configuration of the machine in question, but a recreation of the machine does not get this error. I'm not ultra-familiar with flash/flex, so is there something that flex/flash could do which would cause this error dialog to appear.     How would one even go about debugging this? It's mostly not reproducible aside from a single machine, and the circumstances which cause the error are unknown. Thoughts?  
Furthermore, this doesn't seem to break the operation of my flex application, although it is annoying.
  When you're setting up the "mirror" of your development machine, are you sure you're installing the version of Flash with Debugging enabled?     That might have something to do with it.  
  Looks like a windows dialog to me. Neither Flash/Flex or Javascript. (though one could make either look like that if they tried).     The problem could be entirely machine dependent, it could be a virus, or it could be anti-virus or add blocker thinking the flash file is a threat. My automatic backup.recovery software sometimes pops alerts like that when it's in the middle of making a backup and I download something.     I'm meandering, my point is there are far more variables than just the browser and flash versions that could be coming in to play. I know that probably doesn't help much, but hopefully I've given you a few more ideas of what to check.  
As it turns out, this WAS somehow being generated in the flex with some odd timing issue. The issue is being investigated, but using the app in a high latency/low bandwidth scenario was the only way to reproduce this problem.
  Have you tried using IE developer toolbar?    http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=e59c3964-672d-4511-bb3e-2d5e1db91038   displaylang=en    
  Process Explorer would help debug this by displaying the call stacks of the IE7 process. You could then look at each call stack in order to find the one displaying the message box. This will show you exactly which modules are on the stack at the time the message box is displayed.  
Difference in behaviour between javascript click() and user click on a button using JSF
  I have a form which, when the button gets clicked by a user, redirects to another page, but when I simulate the click with javascript, the redirect fails. Tha ajax calls are exactly the same (except for the javax.faces.ViewState, but have different results.     The form looks something like:       The javascript function:       When I enter 3 into the text input box and click Go, the page is redirected as expected to the target returned by #{form.go}.     When I enter 3 into the text input box and press enter, #{form.go} is called correctly but the page is NOT redirected.     In both cases form.go is called correctly and returns the correct value for the redirection. Could anyone tell me why the javascript click() does not work, and if I'm doing something completely wrong, please tell me how to do it right.     I'm using Firefox 3.5 if that makes a difference.     Thanks.  
Can't you just call form.submit()?
+1 - @Robusto true for this example ... but there might be different scenarios in which we will need that.
@Robusto: that's not possible in this particular case.
@BalusC as a matter of interest, why?
@Robusto: it doesn't seem to work either. When I replace the click() line with document.forms['form'].submit(); nothing happens.
@MatthieuF: JSF needs to know which button is been clicked/pressed so that it can associate and execute the action as definied in the button. The button name/value pair itself is namely also been sent as HTTP request parameter. If you use `form.submit()`, then none of them will be sent, so JSF can't associate and execute any action (as you apparently encountered yourself).
  return false; prevents from redirection.  
Even if I have return true, it doesn't work.
  The    a4j:commandButton    generates a button element with a bunch of JavaScript to fire an    ajaxical    request. Your functional requirement however ("redirect page") can be as good done with a "plain vanilla"    h:commandButton   . So I would use that instead.      You however don't need to return true or false from the keypress. Rewrite your function as follows:       That's all (yes, detecting the enter key is browser independent).  
In fact I use a4j:commandButton because I want to take advantage of the a4j:support to display a 'please be patient' indicator, using  								     This doesn't work with an h:commandButton
Well, then stick to `a4j:commandButton` and use the aforementioned function. If that doesn't help either, then I don't know anymore. Maybe a flaw/bug in JSF code. A debugger should tell you more.
  I never did find out why this didn't work. As far as I know, it still doesn't work.     However, after asking the same question in the    JBoss community forum   , there is a different way to achieve this in richfaces:       this is included in the page to which it applies. This works.  
Grid layout using Javascript for a calculator
  Can someone tell me the best way to use Grid layout to set the buttons of my Calculator  
What idea you have so far ?
Existing code is necessary to help you out.
Are you using any javascript toolkit ?
Yes I am using javascript toolkit
  This is almost too general a question to answer, you don't even make it clear what programming language you're talking about (JavaScript? Java? X.net?).     Let me give you an example using Java. The basic idea would be that you create one javax.swing.JButton (assuming that you're using Swing) for each button, then you think about the layout you'd like to achieve (obviously a grid), and add the buttons to the parent component. For instance, to mimick the layout of the GNOME calculator:       With    new GridLayout(5, 4, 5, 5)    you're defining a 5x4 grid (5 rows, 4 columns) and an inter-cell spacing of 5 pixels, both horizontally and vertically. After that you just add the buttons in the correct order (left-to-right, top-to-bottom).  
In the question itself I have written it javascript being used.
Is it possible to use jsp variable value to initialize JQUERY variable?
  I have some questions which are as follows:         How can I use the JSP variable/array in JQUERY code? Here what ever the JQUERY code we have is stored in separate .js file and that file is included in the JSP file.         Actually I want to initialize the JQUERY array with the JSP variable. So please guide me to achieve this task.      
  Not directly. You'd have to set it into the page somewhere.       Note that this could get tricky for complex objects. Maybe JSON serialization can be your friend here.     Also note that this is one-way only. It is impossible to set the value of JSP variables from JavaScript (since the JavaScript runs client-side after the JSP has finished its work).  
Note the XSS implications: String theVar = "hello'; alert(\"XSS\"); //"
  You can use this -          input type="hidden" id="var1" value="   %=jspVar%   " /         and then use var1 in jQuery.  
Assuming that the variable is a string and that it doesn't contain a " character.
  In Plain Old JSP       Using EL (Expression Language)       Using Struts       Using JSTL       In essence, it's possible to populate Javascript objects from JSP. Don't forget that scriptlets and tags are just rendered back as HTML/XHTML, so JS cannot talk to tags and vice-versa.  
The 2nd example doesn't use JSTL at all. It's called EL (Expression Language).
Thanks BalusC...I was looking for that word....I've updated it ...
But EL was part of JSTL - http://www.jcp.org/aboutJava/communityprocess/first/jsr052 (Appendix A) :)
As this answer floats to the top I'll repeat my comment from another answer, especially for the "Plain Old JSP" solution: Note the XSS implications: String theVar = "hello'; alert(\"XSS\"); //"
True Olaf...hence it's better to use JSTL `     ` for such implications and move away from "Plain Old JSP".
Erm, the `fmt` taglib doesn't take care about XSS. The `c:out` and `fn:escapeXml` does.
@BalusC, true....I used the `fn:replace` to solve XSS, I was thinking struts when I wrote this. In struts you can handle XSS by allowing `filter="true"` on `bean:write`
Ahh, JSP injection! What if the text is: `"; alert('Hi Jim!'); var foo = "`?
@Konrad Garus then the OP didn't introduce proper validation on his data! :-)
  Java/JSP runs in webserver at the server machine and produces HTML/CSS/JS code. Server machine sends HTML/CSS/JS code to client machine. HTML/CSS/JS runs in webbrowser at client machine. Rightclick page and view source, you don't see any Java/JSP code.     JSP is a view technology which provides a template to write HTML/CSS/JS in and the ability to interact with backend Java data using taglibs/EL to control page flow and access data.      Whenever you want to let JavaScript access Java/JSP variables, all you need to do is to just write a Java variable    as if    it is a JavaScript variable.       Is an excellent example. Note that those quotes are required for JavaScript itself, not for JSP/EL. Imagine that    ${bean.foo}    returns    bar   , then the generated HTML/CSS/JS page which arrived at the client side would end up looking like:       Whenever you want to let Java/JSP access JavaScript variables, all you need to do is to let JavaScript fire a (XML)HTTP request. More background info and examples can be found in    this article   .  
Reset Java Applet on page reload
  I need to quit firefox and restart it in order for the applet to be refreshed... its anoying since i'm still programming it an the class files changes... am i missing some codes which makes it unable to refresh the applet and still take the one from the cache???     So I have a .jar applet in my website, a simulation game that spawns army whenever user clicks on the screen... however whenever I refresh the page, the previous army are still there on the screen.. I want it to be refreshed (as if we're just starting to run the application the first time).     I already tried pressing CTRL+f5 but the trick doesn't seem to work     I'd basically like to do it automatically using scripts or something, so that it won't require user to manually press some button on the keyboard     Any Suggestions?     I'd really appreciate it     Thank you....  
How is the content of your applet (armies, clicked dots, and so on) stored ?
Why did you ask basically the same question again? People answered this here http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2410345/reset-java-applet-on-reload
  Try clearing the cache by Pressing    Strg + Shift + Entf    and then reloading the Page.  
Yes, that may/may not be working, however I'd like to do it automatically without the user having to press any keys in the keyboard... possibly with scripts or something... thanks
In english that is Ctrl-Shift-Refresh
This hotkeys will clear BROWSER cache, but the applet is cached on JAVA VM side.
  Have you tried to prevent caching?    
  Some understanding of the Applet lifecycle may help here.       init()    is automatically called when the Applet is first loaded.  This event only happens once.     start()    is always called just after    init()       start()    is automatically called whenever the user loads a page that hosts the applet.     stop()    is automatically called whenever the user leaves a page that hosts the applet.     destroy()    is automatically called when the applet is removed from memory.  This event only happens once.     stop()    is always called just before    destroy()   .     As you can tell from the description of the    start()    and    stop()    methods, the applet isn't unloaded as soon as you leave a page.  I'll be honest, I'm not certain exactly    when    it's unloaded.     However, you could put some code in the Applet's    stop()    method that removes any armies that you added, or do some trickery in the    start()    method to reset the game data.  
  You are aware of the appletviewer program in the JDK?  
Google Web Toolkit, what can I do with it?
  I was recently looking into Google Web Toolkit and it seemed really interesting. I was curious what can I really do with it, can I simple register and login system or similar things?  
  That's an awfully broad question, isn't it?     From    Wikipedia   :          Google Web Toolkit (GWT /??w?t/)) is an open source set of tools that allows web developers to create and maintain complex JavaScript  front-end applications in Java. Other than a few native libraries, everything is Java source that can be built on any supported platform with the included GWT Ant  build files. It is licensed under the Apache License version 2.0.   1             ...           Using GWT, developers can rapidly develop and debug AJAX applications in the Java language using the Java development tools of their choice. When the application is deployed, the GWT cross-compiler translates the Java application to standalone JavaScript  files that are optionally obfuscated and deeply optimized.       For anything any more detailed, I think a more detailed question is needed.  
I mean stuff that does not involve linking with Gmail or other Google stuff, use it like a framework to build a website that you can interact with a database.
  Here is a few    example    websites built using the Google Web Toolkit.     Should give you an idea what is possible.  
  You can write any kind of website with it:          Google Web Toolkit (GWT) is a development toolkit for building and optimizing complex browser-based applications.       Translation:          GWT is a bunch of tools to help you make a website.    
Tools and libraries, I'd say (depends what you understand by "tools" :D)
  In short:          You can develop in a pretty easy way   web AJAX applications in a desktop app   way.       It is:       web AJAX application:    page or bunch of pages that has Javascript and the like to communicate with the server and bring the data that changes (not all the data). Think in gmail or gmaps by example. Web that is pretty dynamic.       desktop-app way:    using objects like panels, textboxes, events and event handlers, grids. Things you are used to use in a Window-app (like Swing, SWT, AWT, and the like).       Also tt helps a lot in:   - optimizing javascript and loading of resources - making apps compatible with diferent browsers - maiking easy to build new components and re use them  
  Google Web Toolkit can be used in many ways:       as a framework for building Rich Internet Applications (RIA) from scratch - the most common use, AFAICT. Examples include    Google Wave   , the Google AdWords advertiser interface or    Lombardi's Blueprint   ,     as a tool for building small (either code-wise or size-wise :)) Widgets to be included on a "regular" website. For example, you can build a nice, fully customized WYSIWYG editor in GWT and include it in your web page,     as a base framework for a more complex/customized one - examples include    Ext GWT/GXT    and    SmartGWT   . This point is the reason why base GWT Widgets are simple and/or plain - GWT is meant to be tool for you to build your own more complex and customized Widgets. If you are not up to the "challenge" you can use the mentioned GWT-based frameworks. But note that these frameworks tend to be heavier/slower than pure GWT - the price for including everything, including kitchen sink ;)     as a sort of in between solution - when you have some parts of your application (old, legacy stuff or something like that) in JavaScript, but you want to add new functionalities using GWT (and possibly, in the future, go with GWT all the way).    JSNI    and    JavaScript overlay types    allow mixing plain old JavaScript (POJS anyone?) with GWT Widgets and such,     other uses include some extreme/'hackish' stuff (but in an awesome way), like:       GWT Extreme         gwtquery    - "a jQuery-like API written in GWT"           ... and many others. GWT is a very robust framework, IMHO. Maybe the question should be "Google Web Toolkit, what    can't    I do with it?" ;)  
Jquery Retrieving data from webpage and entering it in database
  I am new to Jquery. I want to read specific data(some div's only) from a webpage and store it in my database. Now I am not able to do so as load functions loads the data into the current page id. My goal is to read specific data and store them in database. So which Jquery function should I use for this? if someone can throw some light on it, it would be really helpful for me.     I am using JSP,MySQL,Java.  
  If you just include the tag name of the control in the JQuery function then it will only search for that type of control. Like the following will fetch all the divs     
  jQuery is a client side library so you are not going to use jQuery to store data in a database.     You can use jQuery to do a post,    $.post()    and send some data to the server where your servlets can then store it in the database for you. Here is a page that describes using the    post function   .     You should be able to grad data from the page with the jQuery selectors and submit that data with post.  
Thanks for your reply Vincent. I am not able to grad data from the page either using Jquery. If say I want to read some div tags of a page and want to store it in some variable, that is not working either for me. Can you tell me how to read specific data from a webpage into a variable(in different page)?
On a different page? Are you saying that you want to submit data from one page and access it on a second page? Can you say how the data is on the the page? Is it entered by the user in a form?
Lets say there are two webpages named abc.html and  xyz.jsp.....  On xyz.jsp page I want to read one div tag of abc.html page(Read and not load, so that i can work on that data read). Now how to go about it?
Chat client with GWT
  What would be the best way to create a JS chat client with GWT? The bit that I'm having trouble with is the persistence and transfer of the messages. Should I store the messages in a DB and check the db for new messages? Is there a much better way to do this?  
  You could either have connected clients continuously poll the server for new messages or you could have a look at Server Push:   http://code.google.com/p/google-web-toolkit-incubator/wiki/ServerPushFAQ    
Thanks.Should I use a DB?
No, there wouldn't be any need - unless you want to keep some kind of chat history on the server.
Sorry, I am confused (new to GWT, too). Should I just use a standard data structure then to store the messages?
Yes.  Have a look at the NewMessageEvent class from a GWT chat application: http://code.google.com/p/gwt-eclipsecon-chat/source/browse/trunk/src/org/eclipsecon/gwt/chattr/client/
  Like jah suggested, you definitely want to use Comet/Server Push/Reverse AJAX/many other names. I've compiled your options for GWT in    another post   .     If you want a quick start, look at the    NGiNX_HTTP_Push_Module    - they have an easy to understand chat example. You'll have to write some handling of the protocol yourself, but it's a rather simple task.     If you're using Java too on the backend, the easier solution will be    rocket-gwt    or    cometd   .  
Thanks! I'll look into this - Server Push/whatever looks perfect for what I'm trying to accomplish. One more thing though, if you're still here: How should I store the messages on the server between them being sent and received?
Like jah suggested - use a simple class, probably only with getters and setters, for that. You might also want to look into JavaScript Overlay Objects for much easier handling of JSON responses from the server: http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/doc/latest/DevGuideCodingBasicsOverlay.html
Btw, do you know if this will work on Google App Engine? Thank you!
If you are using Google App Engine then my guess is rocket-gwt is the way to go - APE and nginx push module both require specialized servers, which AFAIK are not available on GAE. On the other hand, rocket-gwt should integrate pretty nicely - but I don't have much experience with GAE myself, so it's just a guess :)
Jdeveloper vs java/j2ee/js+extjs?
  i am new to the web development environment, having came from a unix/c environment. i've been recently asked to create a web app, which i thought would require postgresql, java/j2ee, and javascript for the client interface. as i had wanted a nicer gui, i've  been reading up on extjs, which looks really nice to me.     a colleague mentioned that the time needed time needed to learn all these various pieces is time consuming, and Jdeveloper seems to provide most of what we'd need (i was shown a demo, which appears to be able to generate some nice web interfaces).     what are the pros and cons with the different approaches ?     some i can think of: - jdeveloper is an integrated ide, which creates UI easily, tightly    integrated with database. (pro) - jdeveloper will be heavier? (con) - wizard generated code may be harder to refactor ? (con) - java/j2ee/js+extjs needs to develop things from ground up (con)     thanks in advance for sharing your experiences and thoughts ... sam  
  While this is    very    subjective topic, I still strongly advise against "integrated IDEs". Be it IDEA, Netbeans, JDeveloper, Eclipse, you name it: don't overdo it, and don't over-rely on them. They tend to cover a good part of the development, but the moment where you want to get outside their "integrated" technologies, you are in trouble. As you also mentioned, generated code is also much harder to maintain.     I have been doing 2 commercial project with ExtJS. Pros are: (1) Much easier to start and do quickly a working application, (2) most of the logic of things like, say, pagination of large number of records on the client side (keeping only 3-4 pages in memory for example) is already done for you, and (3) working with a bit of lower level abstractions is much nicer and feels more rewarding and productive, instead of the J2EE approach "we have a model to develop a process to create a framework", which is intimidating even to developers with 10+ years experience.     Cons: not everything you want, will be there. For example, if the management (or the customer) gets on your head for that tricky round corners on certain sections in the Web page, then it's good luck -- you have to Google it, find CSS wrapping libraries written on JS, etc. The 2nd project I did with ExtJS ended up consuming 40% of its schedule to small GUI tweaks.     In spite of that, I still strongly advocate technologies which are easier to comprehend right away, and give faster results initially. Nobody is well motivated if they have 6 months schedule and they got to see their first real result at the end of the 2nd month.     Hope this helps.  
  Why does it matter if JDeveloper is heavier. Its not gonna be the part of web application anyway.     Now few suggestions. I would like to suggest you to go with the development, meanwhile try understanding the underlying technologies, namely, JSP, Servlet, Servlet Filters etc.     It doesn't matter what IDE you use. I prefer IntelliJ and Netbeans. IntelliJ is commercial, by the way there is a community version available though but that misses some really powerful tools/features required in web development. So, you are left with JDeveloper, Netbeans and Eclipse. Choose whatever you like to.     You should employ some rapid web development framework, for that I would like you to look into Wicket or Stripes. Heard good things about Play framework as well. For JavaScript part, I would suggest you to look at JQuery and JQuery UI, its a very powerful framework with a very good community support.     Another alternative can be Spring. Grab a Pro Spring book, and start developing your app with this all-in-one powerful framework. Even the official documentation is awesome. Spring IoC, Spring MVC, with the good Spring JDBC API. In the former option JDBC API is missing you need to grab some kinda ORM for that, or come up with your own code. Here you will get the benefit of easy maintenance and you would be able to add new features quite easily.     But let me say it again. You must know underlying technologies. Because what you don't know may hurt.  
  If you're looking into JDeveloper, I assume you are considering    Oracle Application Development Framework   ? My experience with this framework is that it makes some simple development tasks very easy, and some hideously hard. In particular, customizing the look and feel extensively can be time consuming.     If you are happy with the look and feel of basic ADF, and your needs are met by    the components provided   , the framework can save you some time. If you need full control over the appearance of your application, or your use cases do not match the predefined components, I would recommend looking into other frameworks.     One benefit of using ADF or similar frameworks is that you can quickly produce basic web applications without extensive knowledge of HTML, CSS, or Javascript. Whether this is important depends on the skill set of your development team.  
  One part that people are missing in the answers is that what JDeveloper and more specifically ADF gives you is an end-to-end solution that covers not just the UI part but also how you bind it to the business services, and also a simpler solution for building the business services.  
is jsobject eval method of java is same as eval method of javascript
  I have read so many times on these and other forums that you should not use eval() in JS. I am writing outputs from java applet to the browser, using JSObject eval method in import netscape.javascript.*;, its working fine in FF but on IE I am getting the Unspecified errors, if I lighten up the DOM by removing menus etc, this problem will go away then, I have tried everything but couldn't get to the problem.     Read on these forums that if it is absolutely necessary to use eval then do that in try catch block in IE to avoid unspecified error, now since Java is calling it, this can not be put in try and catch block for JS (in java it is already in try catch block).     The question is the Java implementation of JSObject eval is same as for browser's eval method? I know that a browser should have its implementation of JSObject for it to work with applet.      Am I on right theory? if this is the case, any work arounds if possible?     Thanks  
Couldn't get the answer to this question but my unspecified errors are resolved when I removed System.gc call from my applets.
for reference have a look at https://developer.mozilla.org/en/Core_JavaScript_1.5_Reference
develop an Ajax client like google maps with GWT
  Would it be possible (and recommendable) to develop an Ajax map client like    Google Maps    with    GWT   ? Would it be easier to use something like JQuery?  
  Of course it would be possible with GWT and no I don't think it would be easier to use jquery, I think it would be much harder.  
  Somewhat depends on your programming skills. For me it would be much easier with GWT, because I don't talk Javascript and with GWT I can do everything in Java.     Of course, on the other hand, a Javascript-Guru might achieve the same with JQuery in a much shorter time period.  
I prefer Java too. What I want do know was: would it be possible to avoid JavaScript coding with GWT in this case. And the answer seems to be "yes".
Yep, GWT was born to do things like this. :)
  If you don't mind using the Google Maps content, you can always plug Google Maps into GWT with    Google API Libraries for Google Web Toolkit   .  
Why is it under the deprecated section of the gwt-google-api?
  Why not use an existing open source Javascript map client like    OpenLayers   , rather than reinventing the wheel?  
  As it turns out, there is at least one library written in GWT that emulates what Google Maps does.  Check out        http://www.maryanovsky.com/sasha/maps/    
Sasha Maps license is either free for non commercial or a paid license.
Why is Javascript called Javascript, if it has nothing to do with Java?
         Possible Duplicate:          Why is JavaScript called JavaScript, if it has nothing to do with Java?            Why Javascript is called Javascript (there is no relation between Java and Javascript) why its not called HTMLScript or XMLScript. Any historical reason for this?  
How to dynamically import javascript and css files
  i Want to import a given css or javascript file depending os some conditions, in my Servlet i have:       I need this behavior since i have too many files to import and the files name may vary according to the condition. Is it possible?  
  Are you trying to insert Javascript and CSS into the dom? I would do that from the client side. I mean, it is    possible    to do it by explicitly writing out the code for      script...      or      link...     . A better way to do it is to send something back to the client that tells it to add a stylesheet or Javascript.     Then you can add it dynamically like so:         Dynamically inserting Javascript and CSS (without jQuery)         Dynamically inserting Javascript and CSS (with jQuery)         If this doesn't need to be done dynamically, then it is even easier. Simply set a flag and in your JSP or ASP, check the state of the flag. Within the conditional tag, you will add the code for your CSS and Javascript. However, I am assuming from your question that it is the former.  
  Sort of, yes.       Then in    page.jsp    using    JSTL       c:if   :         Update:    since you seem to have more than one files for this, you can even make it more flexible by just setting the desired filename suffix (or prefix, or even the entire name, what you like):       and       If you set    suffix    to for example    "foo"   , this will load    style_foo.css    and    script_foo.js   . I think this gives enough new insights.  
    Call this javascript function to dynamically load the css and js file. Pass the complete file path with name in  filename  argument.  
Can a Java Object be passed from Java Script to Applet
  Can you please let me know whether we can pass a Java Object from JavaScript to Applet .   
  No, you can't. Javascript can't make a java Object, since a java Object can only exist inside a JVM. Javascript doesn't run in a JVM. But javascript code can pass parameters (typically strings) to an applet, and you can call methods on your applet's top level class.     The best place to start is    Sun's documentation   . There's more description    here   , and an example    here   .  
Hi John Thanks for the reply , I request you for more Info . I mean can i pass any object (may be not of java ie may be from DB)  from Java Script to Java .
If your javascript can describe the object as strings, then yes. For example, if your object is a person with a firstname and a lastname, then you could call a java method setPerson(firstname,lastname).
google maps with my application
  hello i want to use google maps with my java web app.. is there any possiblity to use it , edit (mark regions, naming those regions) and save it ?  
  yes, it has a javascript API.  Check out the documentation; it's pretty good:    http://code.google.com/apis/maps/    
Embed View Only Word Document in Webpage
  Working a on a Google Web Toolkit project. I want to show a word document in a webpage. Does not have to be the MS Word 2007 view. Any way to do this?  
  I'm afraid you can't display a Work document in a webpage without using some kind of ActiveX plugin. And that solution would work only for your clients that use IE on Windows...  
How would I combine an ActiveX plugin with a GWT project? The reqs of IE on windows is not an issue.
  Why don't you use RPC; whereby you send the Word Document to the server first, upon which, it would be converted into HTML and sent back to the Client. You can refer to    this    question to know how to convert the word document into HTML.  
Problem with Java Applet  < --> Javascript communication
  I'm having trouble getting a Java Applet to communicate with the Javascript code on the page the applet is hosted on. It works sometimes, but othertimes it throws an obscure exception, that googling for has not turned up any useful information, besides a few Java bug reports that were never resolved (thanks Sun).     Here is the code I am using:       Here is the exception I get on the line marked // XXX. Note that it is intermittent. Often it works, but sometimes it does not, using the same exact code. Reloading the page repeatedly will produce the error pretty quickly.       Is there another more stable way of communicating between Java and Javascript that I should be using?     --- More info ---     I'm using the deployJava.js script as provided by Sun to embed the applet on the fly. I made sure MAYSCRIPT is enabled. I know it's not a problem with MAYSCRIPT, because the communication works some of the time.   
Are you using the applet tag to embed it?
  Make sure you have MAYSCRIPT in your applet tag.    
Yes, it's there. MAYSCRIPT shouldn't be the problem anyway, because the exception is intermittent. Some times it works, some times it does not (simply reloading the page, not changing any code). If MAYSCRIPT were the problem, it would block the communication 100% of the time.
I think MAYSCRIPT is ignored in PlugIn2. It never worked across all browsers correctly anyway.
Googled 'plugin2', interesting, wonder if their new plugin architecture introduced in java 1.6.10 has some bugs.
'plugin2' also defines a new way of interacting with the browser. Maybe I should use that, maybe it is more stable?
My bad...the new way is for DOM manipulation only. You use the exact same method for calling javascript (via the JSObject class). Internally it has been rewritten, but you use the same API.
  I think I've solved the problem by setting    classloader_cache=false    and    separate_jvm=true   ...once I set both of those, the intermittent obscure errors stopped happening. Hopefully this solves the problem for good.  
Unfortunately this solution cause applet is totally stateless. All static variables are cleared after page reloading or refreshing.
  If you set separate_jvm to true this has very bad effect on performance since new Java VM is instantiated for every applet. If you have multiple applets on the page (30+) this is pretty slow.      I wonder if there is any other solution for this issue. E.g., we have multiple applets across multiple tabs. When the first tab with applets is opened all applets are shown correctly with no problems. But, switch to any other tab results with the error for no registered plugin. In IE this error does not occur because in IE all applets are instantiated immediately as they are added to DOM.   
Can't get SplitLayoutPanel working - GWT + UIBinder are driving me crazy
    Anything look wrong with this? All I'm trying to do is make a simple split panel but whenever I run this all I get is a blank page. Without any of the    SplitPanel    stuff, it works fine. The same happens with    DockLayoutPanel   .  
No exceptions? (both in DevMode and in Firebug/other browser console)
I'm away from my work PC at the moment, so I can't say for certain, but I remember seeing some RPC calls being dispatched in the Firebug console window (I have an RPC call that executes every x mins), despite the lack of UI. If there were exceptions, nothing would run at all, right?
  Which doctype are you using? These panels only work in standards mode (at least with some broswers). If you use quirks mode, then it often happens, that you get a blank page with these panels.     Check your HTML file. It should ideally start with:       Or alternatively some other doctype that results in standards mode (but make sure to type it in 100% verbatim), see    http://hsivonen.iki.fi/doctype/    
Hi, my doctype is set to what you suggested, but unfortunately it still doesn't work. :(
Just to make sure: Is it in the very first line of the resulting HTML that's sent to the browser (there may not even be a comment above it)?
You can also quickly check in which mode Firefox renders the page by right clicking -> View Page Info and checking the Render Mode value.
  OK, got it working (see older versions of this answer for previous attempts ;)).     My solution is based on    Mail example   . The working code:       UiBinder *.ui.xml:       Note a number of things:       First of all: you had an error in your UiBinder XML template: it's      g:Button     , not      g:button      (case sensitive)     The use of    RootLayoutPanel    instead of the usual    RootPanel       I'm still a bit confused about the whole    LayoutPanel   s thingy - in the    Mail example    they use a    SplitLayoutPanel    nested in a    DockLayoutPanel   , yet only the    DockLayoutPanel    is explicitly added to the    RootLayoutPanel    - am I to understand that the    SplitLayoutPanel    automagically also gets added (so that it can receive resize events, etc)? How about some other Widgets nested in the main LayoutPanel - do they have to be explicitly added to the    RootLayoutPanel    or only if they are the root of that Widget/Composite or is that not even possible? I don't really have time atm to pursue this further - I'll leave it as a homework for someone else ;)       BTW: I've checked this code under Quirks mode and Standards mode - I don't see a difference, both work O_o (though, this is a simple use of the    SplitLayoutPanel    - more complex examples will probably result in some weird behavior in Quirks mode and/or rendering errors)  
I THINK I already tried this when I was trying to get DockLayoutPanel to work, but I'll try it again when I'm back on my work PC. Thanks. :)
Should be similar to DockLayoutPanel.  See http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2493101/how-do-i-use-splitlayoutpanel-with-uibinder
Did you also check it in IE's quirks mode? It usually works in Firefox's quirks mode.
Yeah, my guess's also that it's IE that is the problematic one (as usual >_>). Can't test it atm though.
It works! Thanks alot. One more thing though, how can I style the individual sliders, preferably without having to add the styles via Java? This is shown in the GWT showcase, but there must be a way to do it with UIBinder.
You can change the splitters' styles via `.gwt-SplitLayoutPanel .gwt-SplitLayoutPanel-HDragger` and `.gwt-SplitLayoutPanel .gwt-SplitLayoutPanel-VDragger` if that's what you mean (I'm not quite sure I understand you here - could you provide a link to the part of the Showcase in question?).
That sounds like what I want to do. Could I do this within the UIBinder file in     tags or would it have to be in my host page's CSS file? Don't UIBinder styles have to be coupled with a widget?
In my projects, I always have one global CSS file (of course, apart from the other styles in UiBinder, etc) for some generic stuff, like overriding GWT styles, common styles, etc. It gets the same treatment as the UiBinder styles - obfuscation, etc and you can use them in UiBinder code - see http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/doc/latest/DevGuideClientBundle.html. I'd put that style there. Another possiblity is to add a style to your `SplitLayoutPanel` and just set the style in your UiBinder file via `.SplitPanelStyle .gwt-SplitLayoutPanel-VDragger` - something like that should work.
Plugin or module for filtering/sorting a large amount of data?
  I have a rather large amount of data (100 MB or so), that I would like to present to a user. The format of the data is similar to the following...     Date                             Location             Log File                     Link   03/21/2010       San Diego       some_log.txt       http://somelink.com   etc     My problem is that I would like to have some nice/slick way for the user to filter the information. Unfortunately, because there is so much of it, the    jQuery Table Filter    plugin does not work (crashes the browser). I was wondering if there is a nice solution or if I have to simply do the filtering on the server end and have a bland pull-down menu / select-box interface for the client to use.  
Assuming each row is 100 bytes long (yours has 60), there will be 1 mln. rows of the table. Are you sure a user needs them all at once?
Probably not, but I have no use cases and no way of knowing what the user will or will not need in order to compare/contrast the different links (the table I show is greatly simplified).
  Use paging. (Maybe a little ajax).  
  100MB is pretty huge. You don't want to transfer all that data at once to the client side on a single request and then do the paging/filtering/sorting actions over there. It would take ages to transfer it and it would eat all the client's memory. Rather do that entirely at the server side on every request using SQL powers. SQL can do it much more efficient than Java/JavaScript. I've posted a similar answer with more technical details and code examplpes before    here   .  
This is on an intranet, so 100MB might seem like a lot, but it downloads rather quickly. The real issue is that it is a bit too much for the browser to handle all at once (obviously). The other issue is that this information doesn't reside in a database! Otherwise I would be able to use your SQL solution quite nicely.
I would then consider storing it in a SQL capable datastore. That's pretty much the only which excels in this kind of jobs.
  If the browser has Google Gears installed for its    DB API    or supports HTML5's    Web SQL Database    (e.g. Opera 10.5+), you can import all the data into a client-side SQL database and perform the sorting+paging queries with SQL.  
understanding json
  JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation. But how come languages like php, java, c etc can also communication each other with json.     What I want to know is that, am i correct to say that json is not limited to js only, but served as a protocol for applications to communicate with each other over the network, which is the same purpose as XML?  
JSON is a medium designed to help the transfer of data on JS Ajax calls. But that doesn't mean it cant be used for other things. A car was designed to help you move from A to B, but it can also be used for throwing yourself of a cliff.
  yes, JSON is also wildly used as a data exchange protocol much like XML.  Typically a program (not written in JavaScript) needs a JSON library to parse and create JSON objects (although you can probably create them even without one).  
  Your right - it's a light weight data interchange format -- more details at:    http://www.json.org    
  You are completely correct. JSON definition of how data should be formatted. It is more light weight than XML and therefore well suited to things like AJAX where you want to send data back and forth to the server quickly.  
  JSON cannot handle complex data hierarchies like XML can (attributes, namespaces, etc.), but on the other hand you don't get the same overhead with JSON as you get with XML (if you don't need the complex data structures).     Since JSON is plain text with a special notation for JS to interpret, it's an easy protocol to adopt in other languages.  
  It is easy for a JS script to parse JSON, since it can be done using 'eval' in which the JS enginge can use its full power.     On the other hand, it is more complicated to generate JSON from within JS. Usually one uses the JSON package from www.json.org in which an object can easily be serialised using JSON.stringify, but it is implemented in JS so its not running with optimal performance.     So serialising JSON is about the same complexity using JS as when using Java, PHP or any other server side language.     Therefore, in my opinion, JSON is best suited when there is asymmetry between produce/consumer e.g. a web server that generates a lot of data that is consumed by the web application. Not the other way around.      But! When one choses JSON as data format it should be used in both directions, not XML   >JSON. Except for when simple get requests are used to retrieve JSON data.  
How to manipulate the history of the web page?
  Here is my what I have       So in my jsp file, I use javascript and jQuery to manipulate the content of those two    div    dynamically. For example, if I click on    changeA   , the function    createTableA()    will dynamically manipulate      div id=A     /div      and    append    a table to it. So my question is if I click on    changeA   , then click    changeB   , how can I manipulate the history so that if I click the    back    button, I go back to the content of    Table A      
  I've been using the    jQuery History plugin    for just this sort of thing and it's been working pretty well for me.     Each "page" is referenced by a hash in your URL. That way "changing pages" doesn't refresh the page, but does store the page state in history and allow for bookmarking.       EDIT   I'll expand on the example given in the link to apply more for your situation.       What the above code does is sets an event handler on all    input    tags whose    id    begins with 'Change' so that when those buttons are clicked, loadTable is called. If you change your buttons to look like this:       clicking button A will put this    http://www.example.com/yourpage.html#ChangeA    in the address bar and load table A, also adding that table change to the browser history.  
U think u can give me a quick example code. The example on the website does not make a lot of sense to me.
Added an example. Hopefully that helps.
I successfully implement this. However, I dont think it is quite what I fully want. This does not retain the content of the page, it just recall the function(). I run into problem of passing parameter to the function...like let say in `createTableA()`, there is a `checkbox`, and the content B of it depend of what `checkbox` I am clicking. So when I `check` box, click `ChangeB`, content of B now load. So when I click the `back` button, content of A reload (good good !), but then if I click `forward`, the content of B does not reload correctly, since it does not know which `checkbox` I click.
  The native 'location' object has a 'hash' property that you could use for navigation in AJAX/JS applications.      You could use    History plugin    or    Address plugin   .     Address plugin gives more flexibility and recommended for more complex apps.  
I try history plug in, and I run into problem of passing parameter to the function...like let say in `createTableA()`, there is a checkbox, and the content B of it depend of what checkbox I am clicking. So when I check box, click ChangeB, content of B now load. So when I click the back button, content of A reload (good good !), but then if I click forward, the content of B does not reload correctly, since it does not know which checkbox I click. I am trying to look at Address Plugin now, but do u know on top of your head, that does address plugin can solve my problem?
The Address plugin is little different from History plugin. In your case you need to set the url parameters in createTableB function. In the externalChange callback get those url hash parameters using event.parameters.  http://www.asual.com/jquery/address/samples/form/
  You should check out    Ben Alman's Back Button and Query Library    Great api for mucking with the browser history and has some great examples to get you started.  
  YUI also has a browser history manager: YUI3:    http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/3/history/    or YUI 2:    http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/history/    
bitwise not operator 
  Why bitwise operation    (~0);    prints -1 ? In binary , not 0 should be 1 . why ?  
If you want to flip a single bit, use `x ^ 1`.
It's not a 'not' operator. It is a 'complement' operator.
@EJP: A ***one's*** complement operator.
"~" is the bit operator for NOT. The logic operator for "NOT" is "!". !0==1.
No it isn't. The language specification #4.2.2 defines "~" as 'the bitwise complement operator'. There is no such thing in Java as a 'bit operator for NOT'.
@lh3: No. It's a one's complement operator in both C and C++.
  Because    ~    is not binary inversion, it s bitwise inversion. Binary inversion would be    !    and can (in Java) only be applied to boolean values.  
  In standard binary encoding, 0 is all 0s,    ~    is bitwise NOT. All 1s is (most often) -1 for signed integer types. So for a signed byte type:    
  It's binary inversion, and  in second complement -1 is binary inversion of 0.  
  What you are actually saying is ~0x00000000 and that results in 0xFFFFFFFF. For a (signed) int in java, that means -1.  
    ~    is a bitwise operator.         http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two &apos; s_complement       Some numbers in two's complement form and their bit-wise not    ~    (just below them):          0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 = 127      1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 = ?128           0 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 = 126      1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 = ?127           1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 = ?1      0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 = 0           1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 = ?2      0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 = 1             1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 = ?127     0 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 = 126              1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 = ?128     0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 = 127    
+1 for the clear example. Programmers that like to puzzle can find out both how ~ works and how two's complement works just from carefully studying your example!
  0 here is not a bit. It is a byte (at least; or more) - 00000000. Using bitwise or we will have 11111111. It is -1 as signed integer...  
  For 32 bit signed integer       ~00000000000000000000000000000000=11111111111111111111111111111111    (which is -1)  
  You could imagine the first bit in a signed number to be -(2   x -1   ) where x is the number of bits.     So, given an 8-bit number, the value of each bit (in left to right order) is:       Now, in binary, 0 is obviously all 0s:       And when you do the bitwise not    ~    each of these 0s becomes a 1:       This is also helpful in understanding overflow:    
More clear examples, thanks!
  You are actually quite close.          In binary , not 0 should be 1        Yes, this is absolutely correct when we're talking about one bit.     HOWEVER, an    int    whose value is 0 is actually 32 bits of all zeroes!    ~    inverts all 32 zeroes to 32 ones.       This is the two's complement representation of    -1   .     Similarly:       That is, for a 32-bit unsigned    int    in two's complement representation,    ~1 == -2   .       Further reading:         Two's complement       This is the system used by Java (among others) to represent signed numerical value in bits           JLS 15.15.5 Bitwise complement operator    ~         "note that, in all cases,    ~x    equals    (-x)-1   "        
  I think the real reason is that ~ is Two s Complement.     Javascript designates the character tilde, ~, for the two s complement, even though in most programming languages tilde represents a bit toggle for the one s complement.  
JSR 303 Bean Validation + Javascript Client-Side Validation
  What is the best way to perform client-side form validation using Javascript (with minimal code duplication) when using JSR 303 bean validation on the server side? I'm currently using    Spring 3    and the    Hibernate Validator   .  
  I would suggest that you look at Spring JS, which relies heavily on Dojo. A tutorial can be found    here   .     Easiest way for yourself to start playing with it is to download    Spring Roo   , create the petclinic sample application with one of the example-scripts (this takes you 5 minutes) and then play around with how the javascript is integrated. Spring Roo creates an app with the same technology stack that you use (Spring+hibernate+implementation of jsr 303)  
+1 Nice tutorial thanks
  I found this open source project but it looks dead, maybe it is worth resurrecting.        http://kenai.com/projects/jsr303js/pages/Home       This library provides client side validation of an HTML form based on JSR-303 and Hibernate Validator annotations, integrated with Spring MVC. The library provides a JavaScript validation code base that handles basic interaction with HTML forms, as well as JavaScript functions implementing the validation annotations supported by Hibernate Validator (including those not from the JSR-303 spec). This JavaScript code base can be included in a page by using a provided taglib or by extracting the JavaScript file from the jar and including it using a  tag. Once this code base has been included in a page, a second taglib is used to generate the JavaScript code for validating an HTML form. You can also provide a JSON object in the body of the tag to specify additional configuration information.   
Definitely going to test this. Setting the validation on the bean and having it automatically replicated on the client is the way to go
  Richfaces supports this. They have a    small demo on their site   .  
  Here's how I'm doing it using    Spring MVC    +    JQuery    +    Bootstrap   , partially based on    a recent blog post at SpringSource   :     AddressController.java       AddressForm.java       ValidationResponse.java:       address.jsp:       It could use some refactoring, but this will do an ajax GET with the form data and update the page based on the result.  
  PrimeFaces Client Side Validation Framework Supports Bean Validation.       http://blog.primefaces.org/?p=2874    
Convert JSON structure
  I have a set of data in one JSON structure:       and need to convert it to another JSON structure:       What's the best way to do this with javascript/java?  
  First you need to parse the JSON to get real objects.     With JavaScript you can just    eval()    it, or use    JSON.parse()   . There is a JSON implementation at    JSON.org    for browsers that don't have this built in.     For Java (an entirely different language),    JSON.org    also has an implementation of a JSON parser that you can use.     Once you've got the objects out of it, you can then just re-arrange until your heart's content, then    JSON.stringify()    (in JS) to convert back to JSON.  
  For Java you can use json-simple from JSON.org. I don't think there's a 'clever' way to do it, as others have said, you just have to convert the JSON to real objects, manipulate and convert back. (see below) Also I believe that you have to quote literal strings, eg. "task1", "label", "data" for it to be valid JSON (or at least, json-simple won't accept it if you don't)       Here it is in JS    
I haven't tried the Java snippet, but the Javascript code is awesome :)
I'm not really an expert on Javascript so I bet there's a more elegant way to do it...
GWT: forward user to a URL
  Really simple question: From within GWT I want to forward the user away from my GWT page to a certain URL. What is the best way to do this?  
  You could create a native method:       This would set the current browser URL to be the address you specify.       Alternative with GWT's API (thanks, Hilbrand):    
perfect! thanks!
GWT already has a static method for this: Location.assign(String newURL) (in the Window class).
Ha! Even better @Hilbrand :D
  Try this:    
Ajax frameworks small application
  I'm wondering if any of you have some ideas of a small application i can work on , just to get familiar with any of the Ajax Frameworks specially if it's  related to Java like JMaki or ECHO 2     thanks .  
why do you want to "just get familiar" with any of the Ajax Frameworks? Answer that, and you might find you project... or just save yourself the time.
  A small and simple application for which ajax is eminently suitable is a random quote generator or a Stock ticker simulation. Have an ajax type call update a field or label within an HTML page without refreshing the page. Make the ajax calls via a timed event schedule. Extend this simple example to interactive use of combo box selections to pull back specific quotations. Further extend it's capabilities by using AJAX calls to submit new quotations to the quotation store.     It's a simple scenario but it covers most of the basic interactions that can once learned be applied to more substantial tasks.  
  If you are just getting your feet wet with Ajax then you can use something like jQuery or DWR framework. That will get you the basic idea of how ajax works without getting into the intricate details of XmlHttpRequest object.      DWR website is pretty useful. You can look at their tutorials    here   . The Dynamic Text example tutorial is as simple as it gets.   
  I think the dojo toolkit would be a good choice for you (www.dojotoolkit.org/). You'll find a good article/tutorial on "Dojo concepts for Java developers" at IBM (www.ibm.com/developerworks/web/library/wa-aj-dojo/). Have fun!   
Problem using AJAX with a Java Applet
  I currently have a Java Applet which contains a method callfromjs(). Javascript calls this method from the applet so that I don't have to deal with the clunky applet GUI, and then I can create the responses on the DOM easily from javascript.      The problem is that the browser hangs while first loading the applet. To get around this, I figured I could use AJAX. The AJAX calls a PHP file which contains callfromjs(). The problem is that the request returns because it's PHP, and it doesn't wait for callfromjs() to retrieve the content.     On to my questions:       Is there a better way to handle this?     If this method seems ok, how can I force the request not to return until the javascript is finished calling the method from the applet?    
  I'm not sure I understand what's going on here. Are you looking to generate content via an applet without having the applet perform the GUI work itself ? And are you stuck since the applet takes a long time to load ?     So why not dispense with the applet, extract the important stuff and make it available as a servlet ? Interact with it via (say)    DWR   , which allows AJAX calls to a Java backend (via exposing Java objects automatically as Javascript object). That means your client GUI will be fast/responsive and you have no applet reliance.  
Taking a look at DWR now. The applet that I use is signed - would this be a problem in something like DWR or would the same "Do you trust this application?" dialog be shown?
You don't have any Java code client side. It's all Javascript on the browser.
Ok, so DWR wouldn't work for this. I need Java to run from the client, not from the server.
  So the problem is a LiveConnect call into the applet hangs whilst the applet is initialised?     The obvious solution would be for the JavaScript to initially ignore the applet. When the applet is initialised it can then call into the JavaScript to enable.  
That's true. The problem though is that I am only using the applet for a specific function of the page. So I'd rather not have every user hang because the applet needs to initialize, if they don't use that function.
With PlugIn2 the pause when while starting to initialise the plug-in should be quite small. I guess you could use JavaScript to add the applet/object tag to the page dynamically - obviously know AJAX required for that.
I ended up using javascript to add an iframe to the page dynamically (which contained the applet).
Java to JavaScript (Encryption related)
  I'm having difficulties to get the same string in Javascript and I'm thinking that I'm doing something wrong...     Java code:       I'm trying this using    Paul's MD5 script    as well    Farhadi Base 64 Encode script       but my tests fail completely :(     my code:       Does anyone know how can I convert    this    Java method into a Javascript one?       Thank you         Tests (for today (   29-09-2010   ),    3740 days    after January 1st, 2000)    
    http://pajhome.org.uk/crypt/md5/       -- get Md5 function from there (first page on google for 'javascript md5')   http://www.webtoolkit.info/javascript-base64.html       -- get base64 en/de code (googled 'javascript base64 encode')       Just realised... if all you want to do is endocde in base64 for transporting the data, look at the second link. may do what you want as it is.       UPDATE:       you should be able to do something like this then, assume those extra bytes could replaced a three characters.    
(1.) in javascript there is no type byte  (2.) those 3 lines is to add 3 Byte values to the string to be encrypted/encoded.
I want to transport data, but I want to apply MD5 encrytation on the passed string first
@balexandre I know what they do, I just don't know how to do the do the equivalent in JS.
  correct code is    
GWT: Best practice for unit testing / mocking JSNI methods?
  I have a class which uses JSNI to retrieve JSON data stored in the host page:       This method is called, and the data is then translated and process in a different method. How should I unit test this class, since I'm not able to instantiate (or seemingly mock?) JsArray?     What is the best way to unit test JSNI methods at all?  
  The interface approach is the best approach, and not necessarily an overkill. As to the problem of    actually testing the method    - well, if it is just reading from $wnd.jsonData, there isn't any merit in testing the method. You are better off writing a server side test that confirms you have the right data in the host page.     If you really have some logic in a native method, you are better off writing a selenium/jsunit test case.  
Google maps api v3 - multiple markers, multiple infowindows, 3 icons
  I wanna made "WiFi maps" and I have problem with do that, I wanna have 3 icons OPEN/WEP/WPA, and a lot of markers, and every marker with own infowindow, and only 1 infowindow on top, so when I will click #1 and then #2 then #1 will hide. And if I will have XXXX markers there will be problem with them on map in zoom out, there is possible to made it like when is much markers in one place all will not show in zoom out but in zoom in yes?     I have all info about networks in MySQL database, so in PHP will be easy to show it like in tutorial on official google maps documentation/v3/overlays.html#ComplexIcons    - so follow this can I have for example       Please help me!:)     BTW: my MySQL database have format    http://wklej.to/7Puw/html    
  I think you are asking about how to have a large number of markers on the map which get hidden at higher zoom levels.  This is called marker clustering.     There are a few Javascript libraries that implement Clustering on the client side and are very easy to integrate into an existing mashup:         MarkerClusterer    - I    used    this for a mashup and found it easy to integrate, with a nice set of default icons.         ClusterMarker    - I haven't used this one,  but it seems pretty functional.       You can also read this    blog post    which goes over the various alternatives or this    blog post    which discusses specifics on server side clustering.  
thx, but that 'clustering' is only one point from my question :p I still don't know how made multiple markers, multiple infowindows, 3 icons I try to made code http://wklej.org/hash/ea86da22681/ follow "documentation/v3/overlays.html#ComplexIcons" and that don't work ;(
  I've gone through the exact same problem recently, and managed to sort most of this out with the help of Sean Vieira.     The answer to this question is here:   http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2870670/multiple-infowindows-tearing-my-hair-out       The variation for your scenario is that you'd just add an additional field to your array in which you'd specify the URL path to the marker you wish to use.     Then, when looping through to create the marker (from    var marker = new google.maps.Marker    onwards), you'd call the value from your array for the    icon    variable.     As you only have three icon types, and I assume you would be populating your record from a DB, you'd test for the type of access point and then write the relevant URL path for the marker type in that place (I'm a ASP and not a PHP man, so excuse the use of the term write isn't correct).     My solution doesn't cleanly deal with infowindows. Once they are opened, they will stay open unless manually closed by the user. I have seen solutions out there to close others as a new one is opened, but haven't got to implementing them as yet.  
  I know this is an old question, but as I have an answer for it I will write it for future generations to see :)     The solution to the infowindow problem can be solved quite easily. Make a global variable called currentWindow. Whenever a user presses a marker the eventlistener checks whether the currentWindow = infoWindow. If not then you close currentWindow and set it to be the new infowindow. Pure and simple, just remember to open the new infowindow as well.   
How can I add methods from a Java class as global functions in Javascript using Rhino?
  I have a simple Java class that has some methods:       I would like to create an instance of this class and allow the Javascript code to call the methods directly, like so:       The only way I could figure out for now was to use        and then use    utils.deal(...)    in the Javascript code. I can also write wrapper functions in Javascript for each method, but there should be a simpler way to do this automatically for all the public methods of a class.  
You do realise Java and JavaScript are two complete different languages. They may have similar C-like syntax, but they are not the same.
Rhino is an embedded js engine for Java. This sort of thing should be achievable. I managed it in Perl with SpiderMonkey: http://blog.dorward.me.uk/2006/02/02/spambots_that_drink_coffee.html
@thecoshman This is an absolutely valid question. You can run Javascript in Java and you may need to use Java goodies in JS then.
  I'm not sure how this would work using the JSR-223 API, but with the Rhino API, you can create a    FunctionObject    with the method you want to add like this.       The documentation is available at    https://www.mozilla.org/rhino/apidocs/org/mozilla/javascript/FunctionObject.html   .     You might need to reference the Rhino library to access the    FunctionObject    class, and I'm not sure how you would get the    scope    object with the JSR-223 API (although, it's possible that    null    would work).  
I don't think this will work because the deal function object has no reference to the instance.
@Geoff: I was assuming they were static methods, since they would be called without a (JavaScript) `this` object. Looking at it again, I guess they aren't, but probably should be.
Thanks for this. Actually, when using the Rhino API, the `Context` class has a `javaToJS` method which does exactly what I need. It looks like it should work with non-static methods too. I was hoping for a JSR-223 solution, but I don't think there is one.
Thanks for this, the Rhino documentation is excessively unclear about this part
  I'm not real familiar with Rhino, but something like this should work:       Just loop over the properties of    utils   ,and for each one that is a function, create a global function that calls it.     EDIT: I got this working in a Groovy script, but I had to set utils in the bindings, not on the engine like in your code:    
+1 for nice use of closures. I think I'm going to go with your solution.
How would you get this to work in Java? Would you use the following: ScriptEngine engine = new ScriptEngineManager().getEngineByName("js"); engine.put("utils", new Utils()); or something else?
@AndersonGreen that would probably work.
@noah I tested it, it works as expected. :)
  This is possible if you use the rhino API rather than the ScriptEngine API as explained in this answer:    http://stackoverflow.com/a/16479685/1089998   .     I prefer this approach over Noah's answer as it means you don't need to execute random javascript code before each execution.      I have a working example here:        https://github.com/plasma147/rhino-play    
Rhino: How to get all properties from ScriptableObject?
  I am using a Javascript object as an object with configuration properties. E.g. I have this object in javascript:       This object (NativeObject) is returned to me in Java function. E.g.       I want to get all properties from object and build HashMap from it.     Any help will be appreciated.  
  So, I solved my problem :)     Code:    
  well, if you looked closer, you would have seen that NativeObject implements the Map interface, so you could have worked very well with the NativeObject.... But to answer your question: you could have used the common approach for getting the key-value pairs of any map       A cast would have been enough for your case, because you have only strings as values. So, if you really wanted a HashMap:       But if you just wanted a generic Map, it was even simpler, and less RAM consuming:    
Thank you Radu!
passing json from servlet to dojo
  I am currently trying to pass a generated JSON string to dojo for parsing and am having some issues. The servlet simply writes it as a string as so:        which prints as:        And the parsing on the dojo end looks as so:       The main issue is the data.data[0].type is returning nothing but when i print this out as text the json seems to be correctly formatted. Any help with this would be appreciated.  
  Self-Solved:  Only use the [] operator to dereference values from arrays but if extracting values from object use the dot notation.  So to get the type one would simply need to do: data.data.type  
  I strongly recommend using    Google Gson    to convert maps and/or collections of fullworthy javabeans to JSON and vice versa. You can find    here    several examples. Learning    JSON    would also help much.  
Stop applet execution on load, pause/resume using javascript?
  I'm making something of a java applet gallery for my website (processing applets, if you're interested) and I'd like to keep the applets from running when the site first loads. Then, when the appropriate button is clicked, a piece of javascript would tell the applet to continue execution until another button is pressed to stop it. I know that I can use appletName.start() and appletName.stop(), but it doesn't seem to work on load, at least not well. I'm using element.getElementsById( "applet" ) to get the applets to use the start and stop methods on. It slows Firefox to a crawl for some reason.  
Question... why would you want to stop/pause the applet, then resume the applet?
The idea is that there is a gallery of java applets controlled by javascript. I'd like to stop execution of any applets that aren't currently visible, so the page doesn't bog down and/or crash the browser with all its java-ness.
  Do you inject the applets with JavaScript or are they already in the HTML?     You need to poll for    appletName.isActive()   , than you should get an applet that reacts to your pause/resume calls.  
GWT: Editing Text Of Tree Item
  When a user clicks a 'Add Node' button above a tree and the program adds a tree item below the selected node, I would like to insert the new tree item with the text highlight and ready for editing by the user... like labels in GMail. Any ideas?     --Kirt  
  Are you using the GWT default    TreeItem   ?  If so, when you add the node, you could add the    TreeItem    with a    Widget    which you write which contains a    TextBox    and a    Button    to save.     When the save button is clicked, it calls    setText()    on the tree item with the text box's text, thus removing the widgets from the tree item.     It may be an even better idea to subclass    TreeItem    to encapsulate this logic and provide more functionality.     edit: Here, just because I'm feeling generous...    
Are you as productive in Javascript as you are in .Net or Java?
  I code primarily in javascript and in vb.net.  I've found that if I can achieve the same thing in both javascript and vb.net that I feel far more productive and expressive using javascript for the task.  I often find myself researching server-side javascript implementations to see if anything has gone mainstream so that I can code my back-end business logic and data access in javascript.  Given all the advanced tooling and language features in .Net this preference seems somewhat paradoxical to me.  I'm not suggesting one is better than the other (I've been a vb programmer since I started programming), I'm just wondering if my preference is entirely subjective or if anyone else shares it.  So, does anyone else enjoy coding in javascript to the point where you prefer it to the .Net and Java environment, and if, so why?  
I also feel *far* more productive in JavaScript than in VB.NET. That's simply because I don't know VB.NET and I know JavaScript rather well. ;-)
Have you looked at JS engine built on top of the DLR (http://javascript.codeplex.com/)?
@James Kolpack: as is usually the case, community wiki means the author wants to surrender their post to the community so anyone can edit it, it doesn't have anything to do with the content of the post. @bglenn: you don't have to wiki your post if you don't want to, ignore anyone who says otherwise.
@Juliet - I had believed from prior evidence that subjective-ish questions should be placed in CW.  After 2 hours with 9 low scoring answers, I'd say that's the case here.  After educating myself more about CW on meta.so, I'll agree that a subjective question may indicate a CW, but are not entailed by it.
  Personally, I'm much more "productive" in .NET than in JavaScript, simply because the framework is more rich and there is much built-in functionality.  I also have not started writing code using TDD in JavaScript, perhaps because of the lack of readily available tooling in Visual Studio.  For C# and VB in Visual Studio, there are many different ways to achieve very productive TDD.  As far as the languages are concerned, I'd say that JavaScript could potentially be "quicker" to hack something together in since it is dynamic - which can lead to more terse code, LOC-wise.  Note: "quick" and "productive" are of course different measurements.  
  I feel much less productive programming in Javascript than Java.  The main reason is that there are so many more portability issues with Javascript implementations; e.g. between different browsers.  Other issues include those mentioned by others:       Java has better tools support, both for coding and for debugging across multiple deployment platforms.     Java has far more extensive libraries, both standard and as 3rd-party extensions.     Doing multi-threaded stuff in classic Javascript is sooo convoluted.     Java's primarily static type system (in my experience) makes it better for programming in the large.       However, there are still situations where Javascript is a better solution than Java or C#, despite the productivity issues above, and any prejudices one might have against Java.  
JS implementations, or DOM implementations?  I've been pleasantly surprised by how consistent JS implementations are.
@Ken - you are mostly right, though there *are* compatibility issues at the language level.  And of course, most non-trivial JS programming *does* involve the DOM implementation.
I thought the whole idea of jQuery is to free JS developers from worring about such portability issues. Is there any reason why you wouldn't want to use a library such as jQuery and program directly in JS?
@reprogrammer - that's the idea.  But with Java and .NET you don't need to use a portability layer.  Besides, there are some areas where (AFAIK) JQuery doesn't help; e.g. creating a portable XPointer for the user's selection, implementing a trusted plugin, etc.
  When developing a reasonably large application, I feel more productive in java/c# due to static typing and a larger and more mature set of libraries and tools.     This question is highly subjective though, different people are going to have different experiences and opinions.  If you have a choice, you should be doing what works the best for yourself.  
static typing makes you less productive, not more. static typing is for runtime performance, and catching syntax errors at compile time
That's not true for me - i find that static typing is a form of code documention, makes code navigation work 100% of the time (e.g.: jump to the source code for a function), makes IDE refactoring work 100% of the time, and allows catching of errors at compile time.  All those things increase productivity - for me.  I know that static vs dynamic typing is a religious debate, i just want to emphasize that different people have different points of view.  What you should be concerned with is what works well for you, not what works for others.
  I think that if the application required much about correctness and good structure. It should be a server side language. You can achieve things with Javascript but I guess that it's not very complex.  
Au contraire, you can do extremely complex things with very little code in Javascript, mostly thanks to its versatile `functions`. The limitation is usually the environment (read: browser). Unit tests make it as suitable as any other scripting language for "big" apps.
@deceze: Completely agree with that: e.g., have a look at GMail, Google Docs or open source applications like Vanilla Forums, Zimbra and CKEditor.
    node.js    is currently the hot serverside JavaScript solution. It would be a big departure from .NET, but its gaining traction.     I think JavaScript as a language offers a very similar set of tradeoffs as other dynamic programming languages. It has some really excellent capabilities to do a lot with less code, but it doesn't have the same safety features or speed.     For the most part, I find that I can get more done faster with JavaScript than Java for example, but it can sometimes be tedious to refactor. Occasionally there are times when tricky run time errors sneak in that would have been caught at compile time in Java.     It also helps that I work in JavaScript a lot and have built up a large library and framework of reusable code. JavaScript doesn't come with too much out of the box.  
       I feel much less productive programming in JavaScript than Java. The main reason is that there are so many more portability issues with JS implementations across different browsers.       I used to feel that way as well, but as I have learned JavaScript I have also learned to get around the quirks neatly, I don't really think about browser differences when I code anymore. When there is problems it's almost always with HTML and/or CSS.     On the other hand I have never had a pleasant time writing ASP.NET, whatever I need to do, it is so hard to find any useful articles/documentation/examples. Recently I needed to interact with an MS SQL database, as seen on MSDN the "System.Data.SqlClient Namespace" contains 26 classes, each with a rich stack of methods, members, properties etc. Probably totalling around 1000 documented identifiers. One only need a handful of these to write perfectly fine code, the problem is finding this handful hidden between all the junk. Nowhere to be found is a neat little 20 lines example containing the useful functions in action (or at least if so I haven't found it). I suppose one can learn to get around the kinks of .NET and MSDN, but I fail to understand how .NET has become so widespread when there is perfectly good alternatives.     In my case:   ASP.NET -> Massive productivity fail due to wasting time finding out what function does some trivial task.  
Speaking as a webforms guru since 2003 and as someone who knows all the idioms of ASP.NET development inside and out, I can authoritatively say webforms is a ridiculously disaster of a framework. ASP.NET MVC is a little more palatable.
But in all seriousness, if you having a hard time with .NET, blame the user not the language ;) Learning the API is the hardest part, and I struggled too when I hooking up to a database for the first time. But after a little while, you learn the framework by heart and you can crank out whatever databasing code you need in seconds.
Doesn't jQuery address the problem of cross-browser portability with JS?
jQuery addresses some cross browser issues, but for the major part it just provides a different interface for well working functions. It also address the issue of making sure that programmers don't know what is going on in their code. It's not like jQuery is bad, but it wants to be more than a library, it is a different way of coding, but you can't truly write good jQuery code without a good base of JavaScript.
  javascript just has a higher signal-to-noise ratio, since it doesn't require all that superstructure of declarations and explicit typecasting. If you are confident of your coding, it's much faster to write and debug.     With static-type languages I spend more time thinking about language requirements than problem-solving requirements.     If you want a direct comparison, try ActionScript. It's literally javascript with all rigging added - they hoped it would be the next standard version but failed. It's kind of a litmus test - some people prefer it because of the explicit typing and error-checking. You and I would not so much because of the overhead.  
  Ok here is my opinion I'm a javascript developer and is all I do, I have a good knowledge about .Net (c#) and Php, And I'm very productive with javascript as I'm in building with C#, but always depends of the application, One thing that you can't do when build with only server side code is get a fully independence between backend code and frontend code you have to mixup (server code and xhtml || css code, but with javascript and some webservice or ashx files, you can really split this issue you get a lot of good points. For example you can build two team one of frontend (designer) and the second one just of programers, And belive this is great, many times just the backend team does not think the same way of the backend team and many time have different goals in their head. The second good point and a very very good is with this you don't care about if your front end designer are building the site just with javascript or with flash wich is ecmascript (javascript flavor), or an iphone.     The bad point is that you have to know alot!!! of javascript because almost all the time you are writting code without intelligenSense or a IDE, is just you and your knowledge, you don't have many feedback from the browser when you have an error writting the code so debuggin can be a problem at least if you don't use firebug (firefox) || .NET IDE.     And for "kwyjibo" I only use a fully JAVASCRIPT AJAX solution only when the site is very complex and have to be a really really USER FRIENDLY 'cool' solution.     But yes you CAN be the same productive =)  
  I've always thought to myself if JavaScript went on the desktop, it would demolish Ruby, Python, and Perl as the language of choice for ad hoc scripting -- but that's pure speculation :)     But since you asked, productivity and familiarity go hand in hand. I write a few lines of JS once a year at most, so I constantly refer back to the documentation to get anything done. On the other hand, I use .NET everyday :)     I think there's some argument that Javascript is more productive than VB.NET. VB is bulky by design, and all those extra half seconds it takes to write out 'Public Property whatever As Type get ... end get set(value as Type) end set' will add up (even with the IDE filling in most of the boilerplate automagically).     C# is a little closer to JavaScript in terseness. (And speaking just for myself, I find I'm much more productive in F# than C# :) ) So you can write code in both languages at the same speed, how fast can you debug it? At least for me, Firebug is ok, but nothing in the world beats the Visual Studio debugger.     If you're finding VB.NET isn't up to snuff, you're in good company ;) Try switching to C# as your default language, see if it makes a difference.  
back button is working on emulator but it is not working in device in android
  I'm new to android development. I have index page and I'm displaying every links in the same page using div concept.     Now I want to use the back button for my application. I have developed code to handle the div and it is working in the AVD(Andriod Virtual Device 5556) but if I upload the    *.apk    into my device it is not working.     I'm waiting for your reply. Please help me.     This is my sample code:     HTML Sample code:       JS Sample:       Java Code:       Thanks, Rajeevgandhi. S  
It could help if you show us some code and preferably an example
...and it's also nice when you format your code as code. Now your HTML is eaten by this site: http://stackoverflow.com/revisions/d16128f6-81ae-4348-b6f7-ea18f6dc0ef3/view-source and have a look at http://meta.stackexchange.com/questions/22186/how-do-i-format-my-code-blocks
  Try    
How to call Javascript function in JSF EL conditionally?
  I have to call JavaScript function based on the bean value. i use the following code        I need to send some parameters in Tip() like this             Error i am getting is  javax.servlet.jsp.JspException: javax.faces.el.EvaluationException: com.sun.faces.el.impl.parser.ParseException: Encountered "test" at line 1, column 60.   Was expecting one of:       "}" ...       "." ...       ">" ...       "gt" ...       "   " ...       "lt" ...       "==" ...       "eq" ...       "   =" ...       "le" ...       ">=" ...       "ge" ...       "!=" ...       "ne" ...       "[" ...       "+" ...       "-" ...       "*" ...       "/" ...       "div" ...       "%" ...       "mod" ...       "and" ...       "     " ...       "or" ...       "||" ...       "?" ...       '    
  First, get rid of the final closing parenthesis:       Then I'd advise against passing HTML constructs as arguments. You'd better use something like:       and construct the html in the Tip method, which may be overloaded for different types of tips.  
Hi Bozho I need to send     in Tip method then it ll show that image. The Tip() should be called only when defaultPreview== true.
well, try escaping usign `\'`
How do you document anonymous functions?
  I'm specifically referring to JavaScript anonymous function but this could be relevant to other languages. I like to use JSDoc notations in my scripts because I know other people will be hacking at it sooner or later. When i have pretty complex anonymous function how do people document it so that it gets picked up by Eclipse and other IDE's that understand JSDoc or JavaDoc notations?       Thanks  
  By making it not anonymous.     I find the best way to document something is to not to.  What I mean I I use good variable/function names and clear code as my document.     So in this case I would just create a static function that creates that anonymous and thus I can give that static function a good name.it  
Are you saying Yoda is stupid. How dare you! :-)
While self documenting code is always a good approach and should be followed, it should not be construed as complete documentation.  There are many occasions where further documentation is warranted and desirable.  Nothing worse than running across code that the author "thinks" is perfectly self-explanatory by itself, but only the author thinks that.
@Bill but if the author of the code things that what do you think his comments are going to be?  useless and duplicated work
@Pyrolistical I am not talking about bad documenters,I'm talking about COMPLETE documentation.  Just because the author (who is intimately familiar with the code he wrote) thinks the code is self-documenting, and not in need of further clarification, does not mean this is the case for others.  There is a reason all languages have documentation blocks.  I'd rather have too much documentation, even "duplicated effort" than too little.
The code should document `How`, the comments should document `Why`.
  Ideally an anonymous function should be short and perform a straightforward task. So... the outer function that contains it should provide sufficient documentation.      If that is not the case you should likely extract the anonymous function out into a named function, and then properly document it.  
  This is not really an anonymous function. It has a name. The name is "bar", or, more specifically, "foo.bar". What this really is, to my way of thinking, is a function literal. To my way of thinking, a truly anonymous function is a function that really does not have a name, like an argument to another function:       Now, according to David Flanagan in    Javascript: The Definitive Guide   , an anonymous function is one that is "created with the Function() constructor." He hedges his bets there, though, because he goes on further to state that such functions are only "sometimes" called anonymous.     Why am I raising this issue here? Because I think if you have a name for something, it can't really be called anonymous. And I think the term "anonymous" with respect to Javascript functions is ambiguous at best, and ought to at least be clarified by someone somewhere.   
PWC1406: Servlet.service() threw exception java.io.IOException: Invalid chunk header When client send data to server
  I am developing an application using J2ME to send the GPS coordinates received to the server and i am new to developing client server application.     Everything works fine with the use of Nokia N97mini or E71. But when i tried it on HTC HD2, i get the exception from the server. I am using Netbeans 6.5.1 GlassFish V2 as Server. I have no idea why this error occurs only on the HTC HD2. Any help will be greatly appreciated. Thanks...     Below is the error message:       Below is the code that i wrote to connect to the server:       Any information needed to better help in understanding the problem, do let me know. I will try to provide as much as possible.  
  The server is apparently attempting to read it in as a chunked stream. This can be caused by that the client has automatically set the    Transfer-Encoding: chunked    header because the    Content-Length    header has not been set before writing the request body.     So, first step to fix this problem would be setting the HTTP    Content-Length    header:    
Hi there, Thanks for the reply. The parameter required for c.setRequestProperty(String, String);  so i did it this way as info.getBytes("UTF-8").length returns int c.setRequestProperty("Content-Length", ""+info.getBytes("UTF-8").length); I am not sure if this is the right way to do it. But anyhow i am still getting the same error message. Any other ideas??
can we call a java method by js?
  In my Java Script , I want to call a java method . Is it possible to call a java method by js w/o using ajax?  
Where is the Java? Running on the server (e.g. JSP) or the client (e.g. applet)?
  I've been there. See    http://www.apl.jhu.edu/~hall/java/Java-from-JavaScript.html    
  You can't directly call Java method in javascript irrespective of Ajax present or not. Javascript is at client side.     If you are using JSP, then you can call using scriplets     
I think we need to specify the Class Name with this
Yes corrected mistake
although It calls scriplet( < % %>) code first whenever i load the page.
@saloni Yes you are right it will call on load and only once. we can't interact between JS and Java directly
your answer is premised on the assumption that there is no client-side (i.e. browser resident) Java.  This is not necessarily true.
  If you are running in Rhino javascript, which is a JS engine implemented in the JVM, then yes.     If you're running a browser, the answer is almost certainly no, at least directly. You could write a Java applet to run in the browser, and you might be able    to call methods in it from JavaScript   .  
  use Direct Web Remoting for your Javascript to Java Interaction          DWR is a Java library that enables   Java on the server and JavaScript in a   browser to interact and call each   other as simply as possible.           DWR is Easy Ajax for Java         Examples       EDIT: as Daniel said u can use Rhino interpreter or run an applet to do the call     If you're running from  a browser then there is a sandbox which has a security policy that defines and disallows calling Java Methods directly from browser.  
'without AJAX' ? I'm not sure about the OP's motivation not to use JS, so you may want to address that.
How to send parameters with same encoding from javascript?
  I have a javascript file that lots of people have embedded to their pages. Since I am hosting the file, I have control over that javascript file; I cannot control the way it is embedded because lots of people is using it already.     This javascript file sends GET requests to my servlets, and the parameters passed with the request are recorded to DB. For example, javascript sends a request to    http://myserver.com/servlet?p1=123   p2=aString    and then servlet records    123    and    aString    to DB somehow.     Before sending strings I use    encodeURIComponent()    to encode it. But what I figured out is every client sends the same string with different encodings depending on either their browser or the site they are visiting. As a result, same strings are represented with different characters when it reaches servlet (so they are different strings).     What I am trying to do is to convert the strings to one kind of encoding from javascript so when they reach the client same words are represented with same characters.     How is this possible?     PS. If there is a way to convert the encoding from Java it is also applicable.       Edit:    To be more precise, I select some words from the page and send it to the server. That is where encoding causes problems.       Edit 2:    I am NOT sending (and can't send) GET requests via    XMLHttpRequest   , because domains are different. I am using adding    script    tag to    head    method that @streetpc mentioned.       Edit 3:    At the moment I am sanitizing the strings by replacing non-ASCII characters at javascript side, but I have a feeling that this is not the way to go:    
  Do you specify the encoding of the JavaScript file in the HTTP headers? Like    Content-type: text/javascript; charset=utf-8    with the .js file beign saved in UTF-8 of course. With Apache, you can configure       Or you can make the hosted javascript file create another    script    tag with a    charset='utf-8'    parameter and add-it to the    head    element (like most bookmarklets do).     I think the javascript being interpreted as UTF-8 code should then get/manipulate UTF-8 strings.     Then, in your Java Servlet, you can specify the input encoding to use:         Edit:    check this page about    Character Encoding in JavaScript   , especially the part named "Setting the Character Encoding".  
       what I figured out is every client sends the same string with different encodings       Whilst that would be normal for      form      submissions, it should not happen for XMLHttpRequest work. The    encodeURIComponent    function explicitly always writes URL-encoded UTF-8 bytes, regardless of the encoding of the page from which it was used. Of course persuading your servlet container to allow you to read those UTF-8 bytes without messing them up is another story, but that shouldn't depend on the client.     What might be a problem is if you are using raw non-ASCII characters inside your script file itself. In that case the interpretation of those characters will vary according to the charset the browser is using to load the script. This may be affected by:       any charset declared in the    Content-Type: text/javascript;charset=    header.     any    charset    attribute declared on the      script src="..." charset="..."      element.     the charset of the page that included the script.       (1) and (2) are not supported in all browsers. Normally you can rely on (3), but as a third-party script author that is out of your control. Therefore you should use only ASCII characters in your script. (Use    \u1234    escapes to include non-ASCII characters in string literals in your script to get around this limitation.)  
I am using non-ASCII characters, that is why I am having problems.
You are using literal, raw non-ASCII characters in your returned `.js`? If so, you will need to encode them so they fit in only ASCII. For string literals that's easy, as above. (I can't think of a reason you'd need non-ASCII characters outside of string literals.)
I updated my question to be more clear, I am using non-ASCII chars but not directly in JS. I fetch them from the page, they usually contain non-ASCII chars.
When contained in an HTML document, characters are already Unicode. If they are appearing correctly on the user's browser, they will definitely also come through `encodeURIComponent` correctly. If the words don't appear right in the user's browser, there's little you can do to recover them.
+1 nice one Bob. FWIW, the fact that `encodeURIComponent` specifically creates UTF-8 sequences of bytes is covered by section 15.1.9 of the spec (both 3rd and 5th editions). http://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-262.htm
Changing cursor to wait cusor while waiting for applet to load
  I have an application where an HTML page first loads, then an applet with lots of data loads.    It takes some time for the applet to load and while the applet is loading the customer would like an hour glass to be the shape of the wait cursor (even though the Sun Java display is doing its usual thing).    I know the javascript command for changing a cursor to a wait cursor is  document.body.style.cursor = "wait";     But how do you change the cursor to the wait cursor right before the applet starts to load and turn it off when it finishes loading.     
  You can put up a DIV that covers the entire screen, much like a lightbox. Set the cursor style to "wait" for that element. Since it covers the enture screen, the cursor will always be set, regardless of mouse location. Hide it after your applets are finished loading.  
A down-vote on the accepted answer? Huh?
Unbinding presenters necessary in GWT
  I'm using the MVP pattern from my GWT application following the example given here    http://code.google.com/webtoolkit/doc/latest/tutorial/mvp-architecture.html         I have a single MainPresenter and sub-presenter for each of the panels in the MainView. To show a new sub-presenter, I do something like this:       When    PresenterA    is created, it binds itself to events in the    ViewA   . My question is what is the proper way to switch to a new presenter? Right now, I'm simply creating a new presenter and attaching it to the same panel like this:       I have some doubts about this approach. First, am I causing a memory leak when I switch to the new presenter? I've lost both the field that references the old presenter and cleared it from the panel it was attached to. I suppose this means it should be garbage collected, but I'm not really sure. Secondly, what happens to the event bindings that the old presenter had? Will these bindings prevent the presenter from being garbage collected? Do I need unbind them first?     What is the correct way the handle the situation of switching presenters without memory leaks and binding to "dead" events.  
  I'd suggest that you take a look at the    gwt-mvp    and/or    gwt-presenter    libraries, which both take the same approach to this problem. Effectively, you create a base class for all presenters which maintains an internal list of all event registrations that the presenter has. When you then come to switch presenters, you call    presenter.unbind()    on the old presenter, which then removes all the event handlers you've created.     The base presenter class will look something like this:       Then in the bind method of your presenter, you pass the    HandlerRegistration    object's into the    addHandler()    method:    
Most effective server side programming language for web development?
  This is more a question of pros/cons between PHP and JAVA.  Iv been doing research, and iv narrowed it down to those two.     And in consideration, id like to go into mobile app dev...So thats +1 for Java.     Time taken to learn the language is not an issue...Just would like to know which is the most effective between the two languages mentioned above.     And on a slight note. Can Javascript work with Java? And what is the real advantage of that?     All answers are appreciated, thanks in advance.  
this is merely place for programming topics to discuss, not profit. Personally I'd learn *how to program* in general rather than particular language.
JavaScript is client-side. PHP and Java (JSP) are server-side.
Thanks byronh, that was clear cut.
JavaScript is supported by lots of web browsers. That doesn't stop it being a perfectly capable server side language. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server-side_JavaScript
asp.net is a good choice. I'm wondering what's your criterion that made you narrow it down to php and java.
Thanks for your response, just overall feedback about languages. Majority of what IVE seen personally, have been feedback about these two languages. Questions posted on sites, so on and so forth
  I'm sorry, but PHP and Java are not the only choices. Ruby on Rails and Python's Django framework are both    excellent    tools for web development. While I haven't used it, Groovy's Grails framework is also very highly reviewed (largely by ex Java programmers). In certain (admittedly obscure) circumstances it's even advisable to do something off the wall like write a CGI program in C. It all depends on what you're trying to do.      Mobile app dev shouldn't influence your choice here, because no matter what web framework you're working with a mobile app is a whole new ball of wax.      So, here's the deal: asking people to compare PHP and Java really won't get you any meaningful answers -- you don't have the background necessary to understand what we'll say. You really need to figure out what you're trying to do before you choose your tool. It's like saying "I'm thinking about building a house, should I use a screwdriver or a hammer?"  Here is what I would advise:       Go learn to program. Pretty much any language will do, but I'd suggest something nice like Python or Ruby. Spend a few months getting comfortable with programming first.      Pick a project. Make it something simple. When you know what your project is, pick a tool to use to complete your project. This may involve asking another SO question.      Rinse and repeat. Complete many projects. Once you've finished 5 or 10 web projects you'll be in a position to compare different tools. The more tools you use, the better. I'd suggest you do one in Ruby on Rails, one in PHP, one in Django (a python framework), and maybe even one in Java with JSP.        Once you've got that base of experience come back and ask this question again. You'll actually be equipped to understand the answers. Of course, once you've got that experience you won't need to ask the question because you'll already know the answer.   
I reformatted the question, I meant profitable in terms of greater use of time. My apologies.
I rewrote my conclusion to reflect your edited question. I hope this advice is helpful.
  Stop trying to kill two birds with one stone. There are different tools for different tasks. You can write mobile apps with Java but you can't write web apps with it. You'll have to use a server-side programming language such as PHP, Ruby on Rails, Django (Python), etc.  
Good point, but from what I have read Java is a server-side programming language. So i do not understand your statement. I appreciate your time taken to comment, much appreciated.
Java EE is a server side programming platform intended for creating web applications. It's just as suitable for creating them as PHP or RoR. In other words, yes, you can write web applications with Java. It's just not that popular in shared hosting environments due to different server requirements compared to PHP, for example.
Adding to Rithiur, *any* language can be a server-side programming language. Even C, or LOLCODE.
There are server-side frameworks that use Java.
  The one you know.  
True, but rather unhelpful, wouldn't you say?
I'd say encouraging people to concentrate on the platform they know if they want to acheive optimal results is very helpful.
       And in consideration, id like to go   into mobile app dev...So thats +1 for   Java.       How is that +1 for Java? We're talking about server-side languages.. you're not running your server off a phone are you? Sure, you can use Java to build apps    in addition    to running your website, but that's a different story.          Time taken to learn the language is   not an issue...Just would like to know   which is the most profitable at the   end of all the training.       Neither language will make your site more profitable, but you may be in higher demand with different companies depending on what you know.          And on a slight note. Can Javascript   work with Java? And what is the real   advantage of that?       Well... yes, but that's almost a nonsensical question. You use Java or PHP to produce the HTML that gets sent to the client, and then your JavaScript manipulates that. It's completely unrelated to what language you use server-side.       @comment: I can't really say which is more worth learning. I suppose Java is more versatile in that it has more applications outside the web. PHP is supported by more web-servers though (AFAIK), so you won't have trouble if you need to work on a different server.     I can't fairly recommend one over the other though. I've only used PHP for web, and Java for non-web. I like PHP because it's easy to pickup, easy to use, and all sorts of stuff is built into the language without any includes or anything. Has a big community, so there's lots of scripts you can download. One might argue that it's also a mess of a language, but as long as you aren't all uppity about that sort of thing, it's not really a problem. Java OTH... I don't know. I'm not a Java keener, that's all I'll say :)  
Thanks for your reply. I had reformatted the question, I did not mean profitable in terms of monetary value. I meant in terms of time spent learning, which one would have been the better choice. Apologies for the inconvenience.  I now understand that web and mobile app development should not be compared. But which language would you recommend if its not too much.
@ihaveitnow: Modified answer.
Response is duly noted, thanks again.
  Your question really indicate you need to learn alot about web development and programming in general, so I could answer your question but.. I'd recomend you go read up a little.  
  I think you need to outline the context of your question. For example, if you are looking to get a job in IT, then the language that is most asked for in job ads is the one you want. If on the other hand, you have an application in mind that you would like to write, then you need to tell people (without giving away the details) what type of application it is so that they can tell you the most suitable languages/APIs to for that area.     But remember this - there is no such thing as a super programming language that is the best for everything. Each language is suitable for a range of tasks in a range of contexts, and is usually awful for everything else. Without the context of where the language will be used, no-one can tell you which is better.  
Thanks for the response, and the advice.  I would like the site to allow users to subscribe for updates, a "photoviewer" and videoviewer embeded. And to allow users to upload their own photos/videos and to allow them to leave feedback on items posted.
  Most of the answers here should be able to direct you towards your answer though I would just like to say if you are going to learn a programming language to make Web Apps learn Java, not because this will be the best tool for the job, each job is different, but knowing a full fledged language you will be able to quickly adapt to other languages.     You don't learn a language, you learn the concepts behind programming, then apply them to different languages.  
Thanks for your reply. Much appreciated and duly noted. Good advice.
  Some feedback:       Mobile app dev is not necessarily just web development.     Javascript is the language of choice on the web browser and works with PHP, Java, etc. on the server.     In general, one language is not more effective than another.       Seriously, judging by your post, I would advise you to start learning PHP and Javascript.     You already have a web browser so you can start writing javascript now.     As for PHP just install XAMPP from    http://www.apachefriends.org/en/xampp.html    and after a double click you'll be ready for web development.     After learning what its all about you'll be able to then check out Java and see if it is more effective in what you are trying to do.  
Thanks, much appreciated
@zaf I think you've sold him short. By giving him an easy "answer" you've failed to allow him to learn what's necessary to become a true developer. Lots of people ask this question, go learn PHP, and then go off and call themselves "web developers" and write insecure crappy code that makes the internet a bad place.
onchange force page submit
    when onchange on selectbox, this form will be submitted and my pageValidate() will be called follow by upadteStaff() listener method. I wonder, when such submission is fired, can onchange='' pass a flag ('selectboxisfired' string) that i able to capture inside pagevalidate() 'selectboxisfired'?  this will allow my logic inside pagevalidate to indicate is triggered by selectbox.    
    Then you can read the    window.submitTrigger    variable in your validation routines to work out which element triggered the submission, for example       Of note, is that I think it's bad style to use onchange in this way, however not understanding Tapestry, I'm just giving you the most simple change to what's already there which I assume will work...  
on pagevalidate(), how to get this  window.submittrigger?
The statement `window.submitTrigger=this;` creates a property attached to the window object called `submitTrigger` (it could be any name you like, submitTrigger was just an example), and sets it to `this` (where `this` is the current element. I'll edit my answer to give an example of what you might do in pagevalidate()
What's the difference between compiled and interpreted language?
  After reading some material on this subject I'm still not sure. I was told this is one of the differences between java and javascript. Would someone please help me in understanding it?     Thanks, Mike  
  Java and JavaScript are a fairly bad example to demonstrate this difference, because both are interpreted languages. Java (interpreted) and C (or C++) (compiled) would have been a better example.     Basically, compiled code can be executed directly by the computer's CPU. That is, the executable code is specified in the CPU's "native" language (   assembly language   ).     The code of interpreted languages however must be translated at run-time from any format to CPU machine instructions. This translation is done by an interpreter.       Another way of putting it    is that interpreted languages are translated to machine instructions step-by-step    while    the program is being executed, while compiled languages have already been translated    before    program execution.         P.S.:    I mentioned Java vs. C as interpreted vs. compiled languages. In fact, one cannot say, "This language is compiled, and this one is interpreted." While such statements are    generally    true, there's nothing to stop someone from writing a C language interpreter. In fact, an interpreter for C exists, though I can't presently remember it's name.  
Java is interpreted? From wikipedia: "Java applications are typically compiled to bytecode (class file) that can run on any Java Virtual Machine (JVM) regardless of computer architecture."
@Personman that is still technically "interpreted" as the JVM is executing the code, not the OS itself. Its really a semantic difference anymore, as one could say that the complexity of modern OSes make the difference basically irrelevant for most situations. Your talking about the difference between the OS running the app, and the OS running an app which is running the code.
I suppose you mean that class files themselves are interpreted by the Java VM. That is kind of reasonable, but java source really is compiled to Java VM bytecode. You could build a physical Java Machine that would not require the VM to interpret it into another architecture's machine code. So it seems more accurate to say that Java is compiled. Still, this is a good example of the way in which the distinction is confusing and kind of arbitrary. After all, compiled C is interpreted by the CPU, right?
@Personman: AFAIK, Java byte-code is interpreted by the JVM, as @GrayWizardX just said. See also my P.S. -- And yes, the distinction can be somewhat arbitrary today. Contrast the Java VM with e.g. the .NET "VM". .NET programs are first compiled into CIL byte-code (at "compile-time") and again compiled to machine code (at "run-time"). ... Does this now make C# a compiled language, or an interpreted one?
Java's a pretty bad example of either a compiled or interpreted language because it's essentially both.  If I were going to make a comparison, I'd go with C and Lisp to avoid any confusion.
I guess I think that in general, since at some level any running code is interpreted in some form by something, that it is most useful to mean by 'interpreted language' 'language for which the standard use case is to run an interpreter rather than a compiler on the source itself.'
@stakx - actually Java bytecodes are **normally** compiled to native code by a JIT compiler as well.  The only way to get pure interpreter behavior is to explicitly switch off the JIT compiler when the JVM is launched.
@GrayWizardx: s/OS/CPU/. The OS is responsible for resource management, not code interpretation; it does not itself execute code, it is executable code.
See also: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1326071/is-java-a-compiled-or-an-interpreted-programming-language
@Stephen C: Thanks for the clarification, I wasn't aware of that. Shows how out-of-date my Java knowledge is...
  A compiler, in general, reads higher level language computer code and converts it to either p-code or native machine code. An interpreter runs directly from p-code or an interpreted code such as Basic or Lisp. Typically, compled code runs much faster, is more compact and has already found all of the syntax errors and many of the illegal reference errors. Interpreted code only finds such errors after the application attempts to interpret the affected code. Interpreted code is often good for simple applications that will only be used once or at most a couple times, or maybe even for prototyping. Compiled code is better for serious applications. A compiler first takes in the entire program, checks for errors, compiles it and then executes it. Whereas, an interpreter does this line by line, so it takes one line, checks it for errors and then executes it.      if you need more information just google for "difference between compiler and interpreter"  
Umm, not sure where you got some of this beyond the first two statements. This was technically true several generations ago with many interpreted languages, but depending on the platform and the attention to detail it is possible to have interpreted code that performs close to or as well as compiled code for certain activities.
  It is a very murky distinction, and in fact generally not a property of a language itself, but rather of the program you are using to execute code in that language.     However, most languages are used primarily in one form or the other, and yes, Java is essentially always compiled, while javascript is essentially always interpreted.     To compile source code is to run a program on it that generates a binary, executable file that, when run, has the behavior defined by the source. For instance, javac compiles human-readbale .java files into machine-readable .class files.     To interpret source code is run a program on it that produces the defined behavior right away, without generating an intermediary file. For instance, when your web browser loads stackoverflow.com, it interprets a bunch of javascript (which you can look at by viewing the page source) and produces lots of the nice effects these pages have - for instance, upvoting, or the little notifier bars across the top.  
       What s the difference between compiled and interpreted language?         The difference is    not    in the language; it is in the    implementation   .       Having got that out of my system, here's an answer:         In a compiled implementation, the original program is translated into native machine instructions, which are executed directly by the hardware.         In an interpreted implementation, the original program is translated into something else.  Another program, called "the interpreter", then examines "something else" and performs whatever actions are called for.   Depending on the language and its implementation, there are a variety of forms of "something else".  From more popular to less popular, "something else" might be         Binary instructions for a virtual machine, often called    bytecode   , as is done in Lua, Python, Ruby, Smalltalk, and many other systems (the approach was popularized in the 1970s by the UCSD P-system and UCSD Pascal)         A tree-like representation of the original program, such as an abstract-syntax tree, as is done for many prototype or educational interpreters         A tokenized representation of the source program, similar to Tcl         The characters of the source program, as was done in MINT and TRAC             One thing that complicates the issue is that    it is possible to translate (compile) bytecode into native machine instructions   .  Thus, a successful intepreted implementation might eventually acquire a compiler.  If the compiler runs dynamically, behind the scenes, it is often called a just-in-time compiler or JIT compiler.  JITs have been developed for Java, JavaScript, Lua, and I daresay  many other languages.  At that point you can have a hybrid implementation in which some code is interpreted and some code is compiled.  
  Interpreted language is executed at the run time according to the instructions like in shell scripting and compiled language is one which is compiled (changed into Assembly language, which CPU can understand ) and then executed like in c++.  
Loading a javascript library in javax.script?
  I want to run      Protovis      javascript from Java and get the evaluated SVG code.  I am using javax.script.* to run the Javascript:       This would complain because I never loaded Protovis itself, as would ordinarily be done with       Is there a good way, short of sourcing in the full Javascript into the eval() command, of loading a library when running Javascript through javax.script?  
  Well why would you not load the whole script in and hand it to    eval()   ?  If you want that Javascript execution context to parse and interpret the library, then    something    has to do that.  You could of course supply a mechanism to the script context to let the script itself do the equivalent of the      script      tag example you gave, but it would end up being exactly the same thing.     I don't understand your comment about Rhino. The Javascript interpreter in JDK 1.6    is    Rhino.  
Thanks.  Not that I don't want to do this; just wondering if there is a better way rather than opening a FileReader and passing it to eval.  I removed the Rhino comment.  I just wanted to include that link for reference, although I know that it is Rhino.
OK, well cool then. The way I've done this in the past is to really provide both tricks: as a general service to the app, I'd "stuff" a couple of standard libraries into each Javascript environment.  Then, I'd hook up a couple of APIs so that from the Javascript side, utility libraries could be loaded. (I was working in a web app, so the loading was always done through "getResourceAsStream", but loading from files or a PATH would be essentially the same.) Providing a Javascript-domain hook is nice if there are lots of libraries or little utility packages.
Using javax.script or Rhino to run javascript in Java with browser context (e.g. envjs)?
  I am trying to run    Protovis    javascript from a Java program using    javax.script   :       In order to run this, the JavaScript engine needs to have all the context of a web browser.  The best option for this seems to be    envjs   .  Unfortunately it seems that the version of Rhino included in the JVM    isn't up to date    and doesn't include everything that's necessary for envjs.     Has anyone had any success working with a browser context from javax.script, or am I missing something?     This is related to this question:    "Can I create a  window  object for javascript running in the Java6 Rhino Script Engine"   .  
  You might want to look at    http://jrex.mozdev.org/       It seems that you want to embed the full browser functionality within the JVM.     Also check   http://ejohn.org/blog/bringing-the-browser-to-the-server/    
Parsing and replacing Javascript identifiers with Rhino in Java
  Suppose I let the user to write a condition using Javascript, the user can write conditions to perform a test and return true or false. E.g.:       I want to find which variables are used in the script that the user wrote. I tried to find a way to get the identifier names in Java. The Rhino library didn't help a lot. However I found that via handling exceptions I could get all the identifiers. So this problem is solved.     So everything is great, but there is one little problem. How can I replace these identifiers with a numeric identifier? E.g.    INS    should be    _234    and    ASTO    should be    _331   .       INS    and    ASTO    etc are entities in my database. I want to replace them, because the name may change. I could do it using a replace but this isn't easy because:       It should be reversible. E.g.    ASTO    to    _234    and    _234    to    ASTO    again.     Replacing    _23    with    MPLAH    may also replace    _234   . This could be fixed with regexp somehow.     What if    _23    is in a comment section? Rare to happen, but possible    /* _23 fdsafd ktl */   . It should also be replaced.     What if it is a name of a function? E.g.    _32() {}   . Also rare, but it shouldn't be replaced.     What if it is enclosed in    ""    or    ''   ?       I am sure that there are a lot more cases. Any ideas?  
I'm having real trouble understanding your question. It really isn't too clear what you are doing.
ok i will try again:)
Still too poor. I did an attempt to clarify it more.
  Parhs - what you really need is a JavaScript parser. Basically, you will be re-implementing pieces of Rhino although it's theoretically possible that Rhino already has hooks to do what you need (I'm not familiar with it so not sure); or you can extend Rhino since its source is 100% avialable from Mozilla. Another possible direction to look at is Google's GWT.  
unluckilly i didnt provided much help... Only extending source would be a solution
jqGrid using a servlet to store the data, how to access the data from a different java class
  I'm using jqGrid for a table input and setting up the url as a servlet which will deal with the GET and POST requests and save the rows to a Java object.      I'm using webwork web framework and I was wondering how I can get access to the object that the servlet is saving the data to.     One way I have thought of is to just call the GET method from the Java action class which the servlet will return a JSON string with the object data.     Is there a better design for doing this?     This is probably not too clear so ask questions so I can help get across my point.     Thanks  
  Since you are using WebWork, why are you writing a Servlet? The jqGrid can post data to an action directly. Let the action do the work that the servlet is doing.  
yeah I was going to do that but then I read somewhere it would be better to use a servlet so there's no overhead of using the webwork action system. I've ended up not bothering with the servlet and just using a dummy url for jqGrid, and posting all the rowdata at once in a hidden input when the user wants to create the records. Thanks for the reply anyway
@Sam In the vast majority of cases the overhead of the framework is completely justified by the benefits of using the framework. After you do your performance analysis you can decide if your situation calls for optimization but I suspect that it doesn't.
How I can get logged in user's info like email id,name,city etc. in Facebook with uId
  Hi all    Can any one help me to  get logged in user's info like email id,name,city etc. with the help of  Facebook  uId .  " Long uid = apiClient.getLoggedInUser ();"  Users_getInfo is not useful. It returns No of users connected to _User     according that there info gets.     If user login  successfully using fb connect, Facebook gives us uid. However, I need to match the logged in user with our member's account If that member is not present in DB then want to register him and I'm trying to do that with e-mail(hashed) address and other info. Is there any solution?  
    https://developers.facebook.com/docs/reference/rest/users.getInfo/    this function gives you some of the information of user. Like uid first_name middle_name last_name name locale current_location affiliations (regional type only) pic_square profile_url sex  
Thanks for Replay. User.getInfo returns list of user with their info. I want email id,name etc  when any user sign in through Facebook.
Means want's Facebook Logged in Users email id  &  other info.
Ok. this function gives you first - last name and proxified email.
Hello Osman.... 1 More Problem In Facebook: How to get User's list_ of_friends_ ID when User is offline[not Sign In].
As you know,We are Integrating facebook application in our website. Our website development in Java's GWT[Googlw Web Toolkit] FrameWork. We are refering "Gwittit" sample code We open facebook account for our website and want to show all users[friends] photo conected to Website's FACEBOOK account when FB A/C is offline [not sign in]. We have used apiclient.getFriendList() in that we get list of all user id [with photo]connected to Our website's fb a/c.But Problem is that we have to sign in first and we don't want that bcoz our website's fb a/c not everytime sign in
Hope for the Best Co-operation
The link in the answer is no longer valid. Please update it.
Updated with new link
calling a java webservice from html page and javascript
  Hey guys,  I'm trying to call a java implemented web service (using the NetBeans IDE) from javascript. I have read a lot about jQuery and AJAX but i cant seem to get a hand on it.     suppose my web service WSDL is found at:    http://localhost:8080/MICE_Server/MapEditorService?WSDL       web method name : sayHello(String name) which returns a string.     how would i be able to to this in javascript?     thanks in advance for ur help!!  
Show us some code. If we can see your attempt, we can tell you where you are going wrong. That is going to be a lot more helpful than a spoonfed example that you don't understand any more then the other examples you've seen.
  Try taking a look at    this article   .  It provides a nice walk through and explanation.  
Will that send the SOAPAction header that needs to be sent with SOAP requests? Or the other SOAP envelope structure that a SOAP web service expects?
Wow, My mind totally blanked on this one, I've changed my answer to link to an article I found about connecting to soap web services with JQuery.
  If you are using JQuery, there is a    SOAP client plugin    that you might be interested in.     Also, you may want to see this    related question   .     This answer    may be especially helpful for you.  
  Unless you have to use jQuery, I think it might be easier to just use    DWR    here. You can call the webservice method from the DWR backend method which can be invoked from a java script. It's pretty easy to set up. They have a good collection of tutorials on their website as well.  
How can I get client side information using either Javascript or Java Servlets?
  How can I get client side information using either Javascript or Java Servlets?      Client side information such as client's computer name, its IP Address etc.     Thanks in advance.  
  You can get some information from the HTTP request headers in a servlet, such as the    user-agent    (so that you knows which browser the client is using (or want to let us think it is using)) and the remote-addr (the client's IP address (or the proxy's one if the client is using it)).       You can't access system environment variables using Javascript. That would be a security hole. There are ways using ActiveX, but that works only on a certain webbrowser developed by a team in Redmond and still then, the client would need to lower its security settings to allow it to run. That's a big no-no.      The only way to get the computer name is to run a client application which is served by a webpage and let this client application sniff it and send it to the server side. For example a    Java Applet    using respectively    System.getProperty("COMPUTERNAME")    and     java.net.URL   . You however need to sign it, else it will prompt a security warning as well.  
thanks for d reply
  Get user IP through JS       Although I'm not sure on the computer name, I presume it would have to involve ActiveX. It use to be possible via ActivexObject in IE. Unsure if its possible anymore, highly doubt it because its not secure in the slightest.   
That only works if the server in question supports serverside HTML includes. The construct as you displayed is IIS specific. I don't expect that the OP is running servlets on IIS. Further that ActiveX approach won't work on all other browsers than MSIE and even on MSIE it won't work by default, you have to lower the security settings.
Yeah I just came across how you had to reduce the security to ridiculously low levels. So, just stick with Java Servlets.
How to add combo box dynamically using javascript
  i am doing struts-hibernate application and i want to add a combo box in my jsp page dynamically , after i clicked the link on jsp page.is it possible to do the same using javascript?     please help me!     thanks.  
Do you really mean combobox or do you mean a drop down menu? HTML provides a way to produce a drop down menu (a select element) but comboboxes requires quite a lot of fussing around to generate a list of choices dangling from a normal text input.
thanks...i mean select element not a combo.i want to fetch content (to be display in select element) from from backend thr hibernate. please provide a solution if any.
    http://www.google.com/search?q=dynamically+creating+dropdown+javascript    
Does Jquery add value to Java / Java EE programmer?
  I am a Java EE Programmer, I came across Jquery some where in Stack over flow, If I am Planning to learn Jquery     My question is  1) Does Jquery Add any additional weightage in my Java / Java EE Career     2) If Yes, What way it can help me      3) Please share the links where I can learn Jquery  
    Yes     It makes it much easier to write the client-side (JavaScript) part of AJAX applications, no matter what language the server-side part is written in.    
  I think that every new technology you learn adds value to your career, even if you don't need it directly. If you are working with HTML + CSS you should learn JavaScript and a JavaScript library like jQuery for sure or you will at some point not be able to catch up with current technologies anymore.  
       Does Jquery Add any additional   weightage in my Java       jQuery is an    skill    and if you know this skill, it is always good and could come in handy any time in your career.          If Yes, What way it can help me       The most obvious point at the moment coming in my mind is that of    Ajax    which becomes very very easy with jquery.       See:           Implementing Ajax in Java web application using JQuery         .     Visit      jQuery's site      to know more about it and its featues.  
       Does Jquery Add any additional   weightage in my Java / Java EE Career       Java EE applications are more and more webapps, so client-side skills that can improve the user's experience are welcome.          If Yes, What way it can help me       It greatly simplifies the manipulation of the DOM tree of the document, it deals with the differences between browsers, it provides simple-to-use ajax operations, etc...  
  It's unlikely that jQuery will help you if you never do anything with web front ends.  If you're 100% server-side, then there's little point in learning jQuery (arguments about "learning for its own sake is always good for you", the elegance of its design and implementation, prototype programming ideas aside).     If you do web UI work, it's hard to see how you can miss out on learning jQuery.  It's become    the    standard JavaScript library.  If you browse this site for very long, you'll see that lots of JavaScript questions are answered with "Use jQuery".     It reminds me of a quote from Louis Armstrong about jazz: "If you've gotta ask, you'll never know."  You shouldn't have to come to Stackoverflow to ask whether you should learn jQuery or not.  
jqGrid problem, expecting jQuery.jgrid but $.jgrid exists instead
  I'm using jqGrid for a JIRA plugin and have included the jquery and jqgrid libraries as web resources.     I've set up a column in jqGrid as required and when I try to submit the form with the respective column empty I get an error in firebug: jQuery.jgrid is undefined     jQuery.jgrid is null but $.jgrid has the correct data.     Does anyone know how I can set up jqgrid so that it points to the $.jgrid without having to change all the source code? or any other way round this?     Thanks  
Are you using multiple versions of jQuery?
@SLaks I have the following js files included: jquery-1.3.2.min.js,jquery-1.7.2.custom.min.js, grid.locale-en.js, jquery.jqGrid.min.js using jqGrid version 3.6.4
since I'm developing a jira plugin maybe JIRA has a version of jQuery loaded which is conflicting??
  That is really weird. Maybe this will work:       You should try that, but I'm really not shure if it will work.  
i'm trying to add jQuery.fn.jgrid = $.jgrid; to the end of the $(document).ready(function() function in my velocity template but I can't seem to escape the $ sign probably. as it is the $ sign disappears even with a backslash in front of it
I've done a quick hack and added a field to my action class which would return the string $.jgrid and have set jQuery.jgrid = $action.jQueryHack;
Embed Javafx in html
  I would like to simply ask if it is possible to embed a javafx application inside an html file. And if it is possible then I would like to know how to do this. I am open to using javascript etc. if it is required.  
  If you're asking about including JavaFX script inline in an HTML file, I do not think that's possible.     However, if you just want to have a JavaFX widget on a web page, then yes. Use something like this:        Code from    Planet JFX    
Thanks, I will give that a try.
HTMLUNIT Facebook javascript warning
  I am trying to create simple application that would be able to search people on facebook using given e-mail. I am already able to log into an account using the HTMLunit tool and even create a page, which should throw result of my search. But when I try to print the result as XML the file is missing some blocks of javascript results (I can tell that they are missing by comparing file created by my application and source code, that can be viewed by using IE)     Is there any way around this? I just need to get the same result IE's showsource function does.     Thanks a lot.     During execution of file, I am getting these WARNINGS:       And then a lot of CSS errors    
Web scraping is against Facebook's TOS agreement. I'd suggest looking into Facebook's developer resources.
  Try setting another    BrowserVersion    
Call javascript function from Java (Groovy) class
  I have a javascript function (very big one!) that I need its functionality in a Java (Groovy) class. It is a simple calendar converter. I can rewrite it in groovy but just want to know if it is possible to call javascript function from a java (groovy) method? I guess functional testing libraries like selenium and Canoo should have  something like this, am I right? PS: I don't want to wake up a real-world browser in order to use its JS runtime env.     Thanks,  
  You can use    Rhino   , an implementation of JavaScript language in Java. Here is example of    calling JavaScript function from java   , but you can do it from groovy also.  
  As mentioned in the other answers, it is possible to use the    Scripting API    provided as part of the      javax.script      package, available from Java 6.     The following is a Groovy example which executes a little bit of Javascript:       It is not necessary to call a browser to execute Javascript when using the Scripting API, but one should keep in mind that browser-specific features (probably the DOM-related functionalities) will not be available.  
translating Ecmascript (Java,javascript,Actionscript) knowledge to Objective C
  Hi Newcomer to Objective C and trying to translate concepts and sytax I know from ecmascript based languages to Objective C.     Is it proper to think of the .h header file in ObjectiveC as an Interface in Actionscript?     Lets take the following code example in Objective C which calls a method containing 2 arguments       In Actionscript(or javascript) would this be the same as calling 2 accessor methods on 'myTextObject'? ie    
Do yourself a favour and get Stephen Kochan's superb Programming in Objective-C 2.0: http://www.amazon.com/Programming-Objective-C-Stephen-Kochan/dp/0672325861
Also check out http://www.bit-101.com/blog/?p=1784. An AS3 to iPhone series of tutorials.
Thanks for the Stephen Kochan recommendation. have the Apress ObjC book...this would make a good complement.
  Yes, that would be the same. Actually objetive-c also supports the dot syntax in some situations.       [myTextObject setString:@"Hello World"];       is the same as        (objective-c automatically calls the setString method, when you write myTextObject.string = @"something")  
  I see it like a function with 2 arguments in actionscript because you not just set some values, you call a method and you use them both. Kind of: set (string, color);  
Creating a drop-down row in displaytag
  I am currently using displaytag for tabular data, but would like to create a "kayak.com-like" interface where when a user clicks a row, the user is shown more details about the particular row without a page refresh.       For example, before clicking Details link on Row 1:     row1|col1|col2|col3|col4|Detail   row2|col1|col2|col3|col4|Detail   row3|col1|col2|col3|col4|Detail       After click:     row1|col1|col2|col3|col4|Detail   --------row1Detail---------------   row2|col1|col2|col3|col4|Detail   row3|col1|col2|col3|col4|Detail       I tried using a decorator to return javascript that would do this.  The javascript is executed, but it is only reflected in the column where it was rendered.  I am looking to insert a new row with the data that does not affect displaytag's pagination and sorting.     e.g.:       ...and in the JSP I would have a detailsRow property nested between the display:table tags:       Any tips on how to insert a new row properly?  The solution may be in the way that the javascript is written - I'm not an expert with Javascript, so any tips would be appreciated.  Is there a better way to do this with displaytag?  I don't know of any explicit integration that displaytag has with javascript (like an "onclick" parameter) either.     This is my first question on stackoverflow, btw - so please let me know whether you need more detail.  
  I'm not sure if this will help, but I am a big fan of    DataTables.net   .  It's based in jQuery, but it is extremely powerful.     They have an example that sounds an awful lot like what you want:    Row Details    
Thanks for the suggestion, but this would be quite a bit of work to do given my current setup (large DB tables, custom Hibernate queries, etc.).  Not willing to maintain a huge amount of js code either.
  Sorry to drag up an old question but here's a possible solution incase anyone runs into this. When overriding    TableDecorator   , override the    finishRow    method to return your details row.  This method will run after each row is written in the table, so for each real row, you'll have a hidden row with the details in it       Then you just have some javascript on the details column to set the hidden row to visible.       Edit:    Additional details:     Add a new javascript function       Then your normal row would look something like:    
Interesting - exactly the method I would need.  Will try this out in a little while.  Would you be able to help with the javascript on the hidden row?  I'm thinking that it would be done by getting an element ID and setting row.style.display to 'none'.
Expanded the javascript function a bit more.
Works like a charm!
Java Servlets - How do I detect if a user is from a mobile device?
  Java Servlets - How do I detect if a user is from a mobile device?     I'm using the TinyMCE javascript editor, and it doesn't work on the iphone.  How can I detect if the user is coming from a mobile device?  
Aside - see this amusing definition of a mobile device: http://www.zytrax.com/tech/web/mobile_ids.html#mobile
  The only thing that is different is going to be the User-Agent. Lookup the User agents for the browsers you want to detect. (Not sure why you would care)     You could also add some javascript to run something on the browser ?  
  Using    request.getHeader("User-Agent")   .    Here    is a list of mobile browsers and their respective User-Agents.  
  Use the User-Agent in the HTTP request header.    
       I'm using the TinyMCE javascript editor       Since you'd like to change the client side behaviour depending on the client, best is to handle this at the client side rather than the server side.      In CSS world, you can hook on the    media type    to apply styles depending on the media used. Most used media types are screen (usually PCs), handheld (usually mobiles) and print (for the printed page).     You can make use of it to    hide    the editor by just the following rule in your CSS:       You can even specify separate stylesheets depending on the media used.        If the problem is actually more that it doesn't work because JavaScript is disabled on the particular client, then you better have to execute the particular CSS when JS is disabled:       Or the other way round, initially hide it and then show it when JS is enabled:       This is more reliable than sniffing the agent in the server side.  
  I have used the      UAgentInfo.java      class you can download here (   http://code.google.com/p/mobileesp/source/browse/Java/UAgentInfo.java   ):       The    UAgentInfo    class has a bunch of methods to detect particular devices as well. Just replace    detector.detectMobileQuick()    for, for instance,    detector.detectIphoneOrIpod()   ,    detector.detectKindle()   , etc.     UPDATE: If you use Spring, you might want to use its native implementation instead. Here is an example:    http://spring.io/guides/gs/device-detection/    
Here it is: http://search.maven.org/#search|ga|1|com.github.autograder
javax script how to call a function in JavaScript from Java
  I'm trying to call a function in JavaScript via Java.   This works fine when directly reading a script as a string but I'm using CompiledScripts.       When I do this with a compiled script it gives me method not found if I also add bindings. Without bindings it works but of course the function fails because it needs the bindings.     Any ideas?       TIA  
  Here's the solution if any one else bumps into this.    
Can I connect to SQL from JavaScript MVC?
  I am populating a list of names that will be added to my Sql Database.  In this simple case, how do I send the information to SQL server without my page being refreshed?    
Ajax: ASP.NET MVC has great support for server-side services that can easily be called from client-side JavaScript (e.g. through JQuery).
  Using AJAX via JQuery's    getJSON()    is a method I use a lot.    getJSON()    is a wrapper for the    ajax()    method I believe.     Here's an example of JS Method that serializes the form data and does an ajax request passing the serialized data.     If successful in this case you can pass back a Json Object. In my example I simply pass back a string that says "Success". So you will see an alert box now displaying Success in it, for my simple example.       In you controller here's an example of an Action to use for AJAX Your data comes in serialized as a linear string so you will have to parse it, which is pretty easy. Then take the data and do your respective database logic. Then return a Json Object.     
  you can do this with the .ajax method       Then in your controller you could do this:         You can get JSON.stringify from    here   .  
  I would wrap that table in a form and then use the AJAX POST to send back the data to a server side page that actually does the insert.    
Twitter Client using JavaScript and Oauth
  Is there any good tutorial or example to build a Twitter client using popup and oauth for login  (Ex:    http://twitgoo.com/   )        Also once the user logs in, the new tweets showed without any page refresh and also the ability to post a tweet without page refresh.      If there is no good example, please suggest the API or libraries i need or any general suggestion.   
    http://jstwitter.webtwo.info    
  To update your timeline without refresh you should use ajax...  
How can I specify my own Rhino context in Java?
  I'm trying to ensure that my Rhino scripts (running under Java 6) are strict so that if a script developer misspells an expression I want an exception to be thrown.  Currently what happens is the expression simply evaluates to "undefined".     Now according to Mozilla org    https://developer.mozilla.org/en/New_in_Rhino_1.6R6    there are features to enable strict checking in the context.  I cannot find a working example of this.     What I did so far was write a class to extend ContextFactory and then override the hasFeature method.       Then in the Main I set mine to the default.        and I get an illegal state exception.   :(     Any ideas or samples on how this works?     TIA  
  If you are doing    Context.enter()    before calling    initGlobal()    try reversing the order.  
Show/Hide RichFaces component onclick client-side? (without AJAX)
  I'm looking for a way to show/hide an arbitrary RichFaces component. In this case, I have a      rich:dataTable      that contains several rows. Each row needs to have it's own, independent Show/Hide link, such that when you click "Show details", two things happen:       The "Show details" link is re-rendered as "Hide details"     The associated detailsColumns should become visible (starting from a state of    rendered="true"    but    style="display: none;"   ).       I don't want to write my own JavaScript functions if it's not absolutely necessary. I also don't want to have a server-side bean keep track of which detailColumns are being displayed, and subsequently re-render everything over AJAX: this should be purely client-side behavior. I'm not sure how to accomplish that.     The following pseudo-code (hopefully) illustrates my goal:            
  To the point, you need to grab the generated HTML element from the DOM in JavaScript and then toggle its CSS    display    property between    block    and    none   . As far as I know, RichFaces doesn't provide out-of-the-box scripts/facilities for this, but it is basically not that hard:       with    
+1. You can also use the in-built Richfaces jQuery `rich:jQuery` to do the similar thing very easy.
I found this answer to be nearly useless... especially with the call to `determineItSomehowBasedOnGenerated(link.id)`, but thanks for playing.
Did you check the generated HTML source? Don't you see patterns in generated ID's? Make use of it! :) It's no rocket science. Substring, split, append, etc on the separator character `:`. I simply couldn't answer that in detail because the lack of information in your question and I don't do RichFaces so I couldn't tell its generated HTML from top of head. I thought it was straightforward enough for you. Nevertheless, you can find another example in [this answer](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2133985/expand-collapse-of-table-rows-in-datatable-jsf/2134378#2134378) :)
In the future, just comment to ask for clarification a bit sooner instead of one month later with a mad smell. I don't shy away from updating the answer with an extended explanation/example how to achieve that :)
SmartGWT with Rest Data Source Error
  I am getting the following error when retrieving data from a rest data source     00:00:52.439 [ERROR] 01:46:57.001:RDQ1:WARN:ResultSet:isc_ResultSet_1 (created by: isc_CustomerDocGrid_0):get: invalid index -1 com.smartgwt.client.core.JsObject$SGWT_WARN: 01:46:57.001:RDQ1:WARN:ResultSet:isc_ResultSet_1 (created by: isc_CustomerDocGrid_0):get: invalid index -1 at sun.reflect.NativeConstructorAccessorImpl.newInsta nce0(Native Method) at sun.reflect.NativeConstructorAccessorImpl.newInsta nce(NativeConstructorAccessorImpl.java:39) at sun.reflect.DelegatingConstructorAccessorImpl.newI nstance(DelegatingConstructorAccessorImpl.java:27) at java.lang.reflect.Constructor.newInstance(Construc tor.java:513) at com.google.gwt.dev.shell.MethodAdaptor.invoke(Meth odAdaptor.java:105) at com.google.gwt.dev.shell.MethodDispatch.invoke(Met hodDispatch.java:71) at com.google.gwt.dev.shell.OophmSessionHandler.invok e(OophmSessionHandler.java:157) at com.google.gwt.dev.shell.BrowserChannel.reactToMes sages(BrowserChannel.java:1668) at com.google.gwt.dev.shell.BrowserChannelServer.proc essConnection(BrowserChannelServer.java:401) at com.google.gwt.dev.shell.BrowserChannelServer.run( BrowserChannelServer.java:222) at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:619)     Here is my data source (it extends RestDataSource)     Code:     public CustomerDataSource(String id)      {         setID(id);         setDataFormat(DSDataFormat.XML);         setRecordXPath("customerdoc");       I know my web service is returning data as I can display the XML file in my browser. This doesnt appear to be a parse error (i have seen those before). Not sure what the error means. Any help is appreciated.  
  I couldn't figure out when this exactly happens but it's normally when no data is received.  My guess is your xml does not match the expected format (wrong xpath) so it can't find any data.     try that:    
this answer was technically right. No data was being received but it wasn't an xpath issue. Query returned nothing
Checking JRE version inside browser
  Basically, I'm wanting to figure out the best way to check the user's JRE version on a web page.  I have a link to a JNLP file that I only want to display if the user's JRE version is 1.6 or greater.  I've been playing around with the deployJava JavaScript code (http://java.sun.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/jweb/deployment_advice.html) and have gotten it to work in every browser but Safari (by using deployJava.versionCheck).  For whatever reason, Safari doesn't give the most updated JRE version number - I found this out by displaying the value of the getJREs() function.  I have 1.6.0_20 installed, which is displayed in every other browser, but Safari keeps saying that only 1.5.0 is currently installed.       I've also tried using the createWebStartLaunchButtonEx() function and specifying '1.6.0' as the minimum version, but when I click the button nothing happens (in any browser).       Any suggestions?     FYI: Here's my code --    
  Probably the best bet would be to check the    navigator.plugins    array.     Here is a quick example that works in Chrome/Firefox. As far as I know, Internet Explorer does not provide access to the plugins array.    
That would be to gamble a bit, wouldn't it? I mean, that checks the java version used by the browser plugin for applets, right? and not necessarily the default JRE-version used when running stand-alone / webstart applications?
@aioobe - The entire goal is a gamble because it's possible the user has multiple JREs. The Java Control Panel will let you set different JREs for applets and webstart applications. So having the browser check it will never be a perfect science. The OP should just rely on `JNLP`'s minimum JRE attribute.
  Not sure if it helps you but you can specify the minimum jre version as a clause in the jnlp file. Webstart will not launch your app if the requirement is not met.     See the  tag.     Also, have a look at       http://stackoverflow.com/questions/222187/how-to-check-jre-version-prior-to-launch    
Issues in Ajax based applications
  I'm very interested in developing Ajax based applications. This is, loading almost all of the content of the application via XMLHttpRequest, instead of only some combos and widgets. But if I try to do this form scratch, soon I find some problems without an easy solution. I wonder if there is some framework (both client and server side) to deal with this issues. As far as I know, there isn't (but I've searched mainly in Java world). So I am seriously thinking of doing my own framework, at least for my projects.     Therefore, in this question I ask for several things. First, the possible problems of an ajax based development. Then, I'm looking for some framework or utility in order to deal with them. Finally, if there is no framework available, what features must it have.     Here are the issues I thought:     1 - JavaScript must be enabled. Security paranoia isn't the only problem: a lot of mobile devices couldn't use the application, too.     2 - Sometimes you need to update more than one DIV (e.g. main content, menu and breadcrumbs).     3 - Unknown response type: when you make an Ajax call, you set the callback function too, usually specifying if expected response is a javascript object or in which DIV put the result. But this fails when you get another type of response: for example when the session has expired and the user must log in again.     4 - Browser's refresh, back and forward buttons can be a real pain. User will expect different behaviors depending on the situation.     5 - When search engines indexes a site, only follow  links. Thus, content load by Ajax won't "exist" for who doesn't know about it yet.     6 - Users can ask for open a link in a different window/tab.     7 - Address bar doesn't show the "real" page you are in. So, you can't copy the location and send it to a friend or bookmark the page.     8 - If you want to monetize the site, you can put some advertisings. As you don't refresh entire page and you want to change the ad after some time, you have to refresh only the DIV where the ad is. But this can violate the Terms and Conditions of your ad service. In fact, it can go against AdSense TOS.     9 - When you refresh an entire page, all JavaScript gets "cleaned". But in Ajax calls, all JavaScript objects will remain.     10 - You can't easily change your CSS properties.  
  Page content shouldn't be loaded with AJAX, for exactly those usability issues you outlined. Use PHP include() or some similar server-side templating instead.  
  I think you have to differentiate between two scenarios:       The web application is a real application for logged in users (for example, blog authors and employees...). AJAX as the main technology is fine here, as you can expect your users to fulfill your system requirements (decent browser, javascript).     The web application is a normal website publicly visible to anyone. In this case, AJAX as the main technology is totally NOT fine as you loose visitors, search engines etc. Always code websites that work without the fancy stuff, then enhance the website with optional fancy things.       So, assuming your application is of type 1, your questions 1, 5 and 8 are already answered.     Question 2: no problem. The javascript controlling the AJAX call can do whatever it wants with the answer. Explode it in pieces and stick them in DIVs how you feel.     Question 3: same as 2: simply care for these cases in your javascript.     Next to questions 4, 6 and 7: you can reproduce a lot of the normal back / forward behaviour by saving the applications state into the hash of the actual url. You can change the hash without reloading the page. Many javascript frameworks offer functions for making this even more comfortable (check out dojo's history, for example).     Question 9: that is correct, but should usually be no big problem, unless your scripts are flawed.     Question 10: you can! The power of javascript can help you with that, young padawan. For example, insert link tags via javascript.  
      http://icant.co.uk/articles/pragmatic-progressive-enhancement/#build       Yes. This is why you follow an MVC pattern and don't just return a chunk of m arkup     See 2.       http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/history/    or similar     See 1.     See 1.     See 4, but this is imperfect and why Ajax is OK for web applications but bad for web sites     You need to pick an ad service that you can work with     See 4.     Why not?    
       I wonder if there is some framework (both client and server side) to deal with this issues. As far as I know, there isn't       You're kidding! There's a squillion Java Ajax frameworks:     Top of the list of a google for "java ajax framework" was:       http://ajaxpatterns.org/Java_Ajax_Frameworks    
Reusable architectural code management
  Our code is in Java and Javascript (AJAX libraries). We have wrappers/reusable code around the existing libraries to perform mundane tasks like, db connections, session management, logging, hibernate settings, base structure, some reusable multitenancy code etc.. From the javascript end, we have page initializers, UI layout components, custom js objects, and some of our own logic.     We have multiple projects where this code can be reused, but at the same time, this code is evolving along with the application. So if we find a common way to do it, we can move it to the framework code and let other projects also benefit out of it. If/when we find a bug in the base code, we can fix it in one place and commit and all the other projects will pick up the change (rather than everyone making the changes locally).     If it's just java files, we can keep it as a separate project, and include it as a dependent module in eclipse/maven and have it included as a jar, as and when needed. This part is easy to handle, but now we also have reusable javascript in the code, which cannot exactly be jar(ed). We want some suggestions on how the code should be laid out, so we can reuse it via maven (deployment time) and via eclipse (development time), without going thru too many hoops.     Before writing this, I did come across some articles on stackoverflow, which do talk about reusable code and methodologies which are great, but not exactly how to manage them using svn, maven, eclipse etc..     Linking them, for reference.         http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1082488/architecture-of-some-reusable-code         http://stackoverflow.com/questions/268258/how-do-you-make-code-reusable    -> This is a great article from a theory stand point, but no tips on management.       http://stackoverflow.com/questions/237946/how-do-i-index-and-make-available-reusable-code         In some of our old projects, we maintained ant files, which would copy files from base locations to the final war, so everything is available. But over the period of time as the project grew, even for a simple check, we had to rebuild the whole war and deploy to test on the developers machine. Which took away 5 minutes every time.     So the question is, are there any repository patterns, eclipse project layout ideas, packaging styles, which can help us resolve this issue ?  
There should probably be a question mark in there somewhere.
if you want free help, I sugest you simplify the question. Maybe split it.
  I would suggest using a Component oriented java web framework for such tasks. Wicket immediately comes to mind. (But JSF, Tapestry etc will work equally well)     In wicket, everything is a component and components can be packaged with behaviors (which may include javascript, css etc)     So you'd have a commons - project where you maintain reuseable java and javascript code.     The benefits are obvious, it's pretty much exactly what you have been asking for. The drawbacks, on the other hand are mainly that javascript and css content is inside your jars and will be served by the app server rather than a static web server or CDN.     Sean  
How do you use Selenium to execute javascript within a frame?
  I have a page (index.html) which has a frame:       And the otherPage.html has the contents:       I am attempting to use the following selenium code on index.html:       However this fails miserably. It says that the jQuery object doesn't exist.      If I attempt to execute the selenium test on the otherPage like so:       everything is hunky dory.     Right now this is pseudo code, if people want me to make it compile I'll do that and put it on github.  
  Selenium stores the Window Object within its own object so it can manipulate it better. Once you move to the frame it should be like this.       And that should work for you     I have a tutorial on my site for this type of situation    here    
any idea how to do it from selenium IDE? window returns [object XPCNativeWrapper [object Window]] that does not have jQuery(long time after page is loaded).
Scores high on google when I was looking to do this in the IDE. Command is assertEval the Target is the script (make sure if you use jQuery to reference it from window so it's window.$("...) The value is the value it returns.
  You can use :    
This is the way to do it with Selenium 2 webdriver
Create servlet from existing Java project
  I have a Java Swing project for my class. I would like put it on my website so people can use it. However I'm not sure if there is a way to turn it into a servlet. Or do I need to know JavaScript?  I'm confused. Is there a way to make my swing application into a servlet automatically?  
  Instead of a JFrame you have to use an applet, which is similar, and have to embed zhis in your webpage.     Have a look on Java Webstart, too!  
  If your application is a big commercial one, you can use    Ajaxswing    for (nearly) automatic conversion.     Otherwise you should rewrite it. If it has been written well - that is, with separation between UI and business logic, you would only have to write the UI, and reuse the business logic. If not - here's a lesson learnt on how to structure your code.  
    Servlets    are generally used in Java to create dynamic web applications and web services.     If the intent is to port a Swing application to something that can be used from a web browser, probably the approach would be to either:       Port the Swing application to an    Java applet       Use    Java Web Start         For launching Java applications with a graphical user interface that runs on a client machine, the approach would not be to use a Servlet, as it will require a server which runs a web container such as Tomcat or GlassFish.  
I would definitely go for option 2.
  If you just want to provide the application as-is on a web page, where people can then click it to run it, the technology you want is "Java Web Start".     This will require you to learn to write a JNLP file describing what jar-files your application need and bundle with the rest of the files.       If your application needs to use resources outside of the normal sandbox provided, you will either need to ask for them explicitly using Web Start methods, or say in the JNLP script that your application needs unlimited access to the machine, and    then    you must sign the jars.     You may also just simply create a single jar, where the manifest inside says what the main class is, and then let people download that, and    then    double-click the locally stored file to run it.  That would be what I would recommend for now, as it is the simplest approach.  
convert java applet code in to java script
  Is any way to convert a java applet code to java script?  
Yes - it is a technique known as "employing a programmer".  :-)
  I don't think there is a good way to do so. Please remember: Java and JavaScript are two entirely different technologies. Don't mix them up.  
  Not really, no. They're different languages with different libraries.     If you want to develop for the client-side Web with Java, have a look at    GWT    
  Not directly and without effort as far as I know. However people have ported many things to HTML/JS, like Quake 2 on GWT. So you could invest some time and step into the code and port it with GWT. Advantages of going with GWT arise from the fact that your applet is in Java language, which is the same language you use for GWT. Here is a list of what you can use in your code:    GWT JRE Emulation    
  No. Google Web Toolkit (GWT) is what you might need. I recommend book    GWT In Practice 2008    
Integration JS and Java
  I have two systems to integrate: 1)desktop application (Java6) and 2)web-application (HTML,JS). I want first application to share some services to the second one. How could simply I do that ? I want some simple solution.     Thanks!  
the question is rather vague and only generic solutions can be given. You should consider providing more details.
  Expose them as standards    Web Services    or    RESTful web-services    
  For an application to serve services, it should start server socket on port and listening on it. Or it should be using webservices. JDK6 comes with WebServices support. May be you can look at it.  
XSS attack prevention
  I'm developing a web app where users can response to blog entries. This is a security problem because they can send dangerous data that will be rendered to other users (and executed by javascript).     They can't format the text they send. No "bold", no colors, no nothing. Just simple text. I came up with this regex to solve my problem:       So anything that is not a word character (a-Z, A-Z, 0-9), not a whitespace, ".", "?", "!", "(" or ")" will be replaced with an empty string. Than every quatation mark will be replaced with: "   quot".     I check the data on the front end and I check it on my server.     Is there any way somebody could bypass this "solution"?     I'm wondering how StackOverflow does this thing? There are a lot of formatting here so they must do a good work with it.  
What is your server side language?
Java. I use Servlets
You didn't say anything about ` < >`,  which is probably the most vital characters used in xss...
  The front end can be bypassed using Fiddler for instance by appending the form info. On the back end use html encoding e.g.    a    =    lt ;a   gt ;      This way the text will be displayed as text not html elements.  
    Don't allow HTML tags.     Don't output anything a user entered without HTML-escaping it first. This is the much more important point! Do this and you will not ever have an XSS problem.     Provide a preview function so users can see what it will look like before posting.       If you must allow HTML tags, define a whitelist and check user input against it. You can even use regex for this.     Say you allow      p     ,      a href="..."      and      img src="..."     :       find everything in the user string that matches      \S[^   ]*         for every match, check it against      (p|a href="[^"]+"|img src="[^"]+")/?   |   /(a|p)         if it does not fit that rigorous regex, throw it away.     See point #2 above.     Try hard to deliberately break your system. Ask others to try and break your system.    
  I agree with Tomalak, and just wanted to add a few points.       Don't allow HTML tags. The idea is to treat user input as text, and html-escape characters before rendering them. Use    OWASP's ESAPI    project for this purpose.    This page explains the various possible encodings    that you should be aware of.     If you have to allow HTML tags, use a library to do the filtering for you. DO NOT write your own regexe's; they are difficult to get right. Use    OWASP's Anti-Samy project    - it was designed specifically for this use case.    
  If you just want simple text    don't worry about filtering specific html tags   .  You want the equvilent to PHP's    htmlspecialchars()   .  A good way to use this is    print htmlspecialchars($var,ENT_QUOTES);     This function will perform the following encodings:       This is solving the problem of XSS at the lowest level, and you don't need some complex library/regex that you don't understand (and is probably insecure after all  complexity is the enemy of security).       Make sure to    TEST YOUR XSS FILTER    by running a    free xss scanner   .   
  I'd recommend reading    the XSS Prevention Cheat Sheet    which details best practice for avoiding XSS attacks. Essentially, what you need to filter depends upon the context into which it will be used.     For example, in this kind of scenario:       You need to do:       While, in the case of an    href=""    example you need to do a urlescape:          "Except for alphanumeric characters, escape all characters with ASCII values less than 256 with the    %HH    escaping format. Including untrusted data in data: URLs should not be allowed as there is no good way to disable attacks with escaping to prevent switching out of the URL. All attributes should be quoted. Unquoted attributes can be broken out of with many characters including [space] % * + , - / ;     = > ^ and |. Note that entity encoding is useless in this context."       While the cited article gives the full verdict, hopefully there's enough information in this answer to get you started.  
  Remove any bad character sequences first, e.g. overlong UTF-8, invalid Unicode.     You'll need to be more explicit whether     and     are stripped or turned into entities.     You'll also need to strip or encode double    and    single quotes, otherwise an attacker can add an intrinsic event where you didn't expect, e.g.    input name='comment' value='foo   'onSomething=payload;a='   '       If you really want to allow some subset of HTML, be careful trying to parse it with regexes, especially ones you come up with yourself, e.g. browsers will render tricky tags     a b="   "onMouseOver=alert(42)      just fine where a regex might mismatch it. Check out the previously mentioned    Anti-Samy    .     If you're allowing HTML tags that have    href    or    src    attributes, make sure they point to    http(s):    schemes, not    javascript:    ones.  
Loading jQuery with Tapestry 5
  Okay, so I'm not a Java guy, but I work with loads of them.  We generally load Prototype with Tapestry 5, as Tapestry was built on this javascript library.     As a UI/front end developer/engineer, I know the awesomeness of jQuery and the lack of prototype therein.  (Feel free to debate that elsewhere -- this ticket doesn't concern that question, ha.)     I've been curious for some time if it's possible to port jQuery into Tapestry instead of Prototype -- as in completely removing Prototype and Scriptaculous -- I realize it kind of defeats the purpose of the already bundled Prototype, but I wanted other opinions on the matter.     Thanks.     UPDATE:     We had the inventor of Tapestry visit us @ work and he discussed the explicit need for an agnostic disconnect of type of library in future versions of Tapestry.  This means, hypothetically, one could bundle jQuery or Prototype with Tapestry, or possibly some other library.     For the win!  
  Yes, quite.     There is an open issue in integrate this into the core:    https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/TAP5-486   .     The problem is to adhere to the back compatibility pieces of T5.  You would not need to worry about that for your single project.     To do so, one of your Java peoples will need to create an IoC Service which grabs the Prototype rendering and replaces it with jQuery.  I do not have the code in front of me, so some research will need to be had by all.     Short answer, yes, it is possible just needs some time investment.  
  There's a    tapestry-jquery    project on github.     I haven't tried it yet but it looks promising and is supposed to do exactly what you're asking for.  
I'll definitely look into this.  Thx!
Calling and consuming a JBoss Web Service from JavaScript (AJAX)
  I am fiddling around with JBOSS's Web Services, and I have created the following:       Now I need to access Web Methods from that Web Service from JavaScript.     Say I have a web method named    foo    in    TestService   , how do I make an ajax call to it?     I tried accessing the method via    http://127.0.0.1:8080/IM/TestService/foo   , but I'm getting an HTTP Status 404.  
Have you tried accessing the server using SoapUI or curl or the Firefox Poster plugin? If you can't connect with them then you've got JBOSS configured badly.
  I wrote the following JavaScript that will allow me to call the Web Methods from the JBoss Web Service.       Dependencies           jQuery         XML Objectifier         jQuery Soap Client    (depends on jQuery and XML Objectifier)             Usage         Disclaimer:    This is still very much untested, so it can still blow up your computer    
How to export javascript generated report to pdf?
  I made a reporting engine with javascript for my project... The problem is with printing.. Although with page-break and css i can produce a good looking report, i want to export that report to a pdf in order to be printed better without ,the url,page title and other stuff that browsers add. Note in Chrome there isnt page setup!!!     I am using java for server side.     i think sending via ajax the Html of the report somehow and return a url for the pdf report maybe... i am looking for a good tool for this  thank you  
  If you do send the data server-side,      iText      is a great free, open source library for generating PDFs from Java.     What I do is generate the report directly to the response stream after setting the content type of the response to    application/pdf    and setting a    Content-Disposition    header to either    attachment; filename=foo.pdf    (if I want to hint to the browser that it should offer a download) or    inline; filename=foo.pdf    if I want to hint to the browser to show it in the brower's UI.     For what you're doing, perhaps you want to write a file server-side in case someone requests another copy of the report with the same parameters and such, but if not, writing directly to the servlet's    OutputStream    would be the way to go.       (Caveat: I have to admit not having actually used the Java version of iText, but only because I haven't needed to generate PDFs from Java yet. I'm doing the above using iTextSharp, the .Net port of iText, from server-side Javascript [yes, really] and it works a treat.)    
On top of iText, there's the Flying Saucer project, which does a surprisingly good job of transforming XHTML (with CSS, including lots of the print-related goodies from CSS3) into PDF.  I use Freemarker to bind data into XHTML reports, and then Flying Saucer to make the PDF's and it's awesome. https://xhtmlrenderer.dev.java.net/
@Pointy: Ooooh, nifty! Have to check that out.
  I'd rather generate the report on the server side, based on the data, using JasperReports.     You can send the html to server side and use iText or JasperReports or    OpenOffice api    to generate a pdf.  
would jasper etc let me fit the data in a a4 page?
yes, it will. it's a framework for reporting.
  It depends on how much you have invested in your Javascript solution.  Typically I would agree that it is much better to produce the report server-side since you'll have more options and probably a more maintainable result using Jasper or Docmosis or somesuch.     You could send the html of the page back to the server and have a system there that can read it and render it into PDF, but you've done a round-trip more than you need to, and it sounds like a harder and more fragile way to produce a PDF.  
How do I create a custom text field in Tapestry5 that renders some Javascript onto the page?
  I have been trying to create a custom textfield in tapestry which will render some javascript when it gains focus. But I have been having trouble trying to find an example of this.     Here is some of the code i have started off with:       I have been unsure on what to do next. I do not know what to put into the .tml file. I would be grateful if anyone could help or point me in the right direction.  
  The .tml       The Java should probably extent TextField?  It will need to import a new stylesheet too probably.     -- Pages are actually components, so you would build a component just like you would have any other page.  You can embed any other component into them.  I hope this is a good starting point for you.  
  There is no need to replicate any of    TextField   's functionality in your own component, instead you should create a component mixin. Mixins are designed to add behaviour to existing components.     From the    Tapestry 5 docs   :          Tapestry 5 includes a radical feature,   component mixins. Component mixins are   a tricky concept; it basically allows   a true component to be mixed together   with special limited components called   mixins. The component plus its mixins   are represented as just a single tag   in the component template, but all the   behavior of all the elements.       You would use the mixin like this:       A mixin stub:       Note the    @InjectContainer    annotation, which injects the containing TextField into your Mixin. In this case, we want the TextField's clientId.     Also note the    @IncludeJavaScriptLibrary("MyMixin.js")    annotation, which includes the required Javascript file.     The Javascript could look like this:       The key difference to your approach is that this involves defining your own JS class and using Tapestry's built-in facilities to load and initialize the JS. The use of mixins is also relatively light-weight and elegant in comparison to creating your own components.  
Thank you for your answer it was very helpful. However, I am unsure on where I should place the Mixin.java class? I was reading somewhere that i should place it in a sub folder named mixins. Should I create this folder? I tried creating the folder and placing my mixin class there, but when I ran the application, I got an exception saying the mixin could not be found. I am using maven and eclipse to develop my project. Any help would be much appreciated.  Thanks again.
@Shane: Yes, 'mixins' is one of Tapestry's magical packages, like 'components' and 'pages'. If you place it next to 'pages' and 'components', everything should work. You may have to restart the application after you add the package, as live reloading doesn't work for newly created packages. (And of course, the class name must match the type you specify in `t:mixins`.)
Thanks once again Henning. One final question, I have a javascript file which I wish to run when the textfield gains focus. Should this script be included in the mixin.js file, this is what I have been trying to do. For example my script has an init() function which I wish to call in the onfcus event in the mixin.js What I have done is copy and pasted the code you gave me for the mixin.js(tweaked this code to suit my needs) into the top of my javascript file I wish to run. Am i going about this the right way? Sorry if this is a dumb question. I am new to this concept.
Should I be using Prototype?
Prototype is the basis for all built-in components that use JS, so it makes sense to use it when coding JS.  My sample JS class should execute the onFocus() method whenever the text field recieves focus. The text field is available as `this.textField`. You could integrate your script into the `onFocus` method or just call the `init()` method of your script there, as you originally intended. If you're not sure what's working and why, setting breakpoints in Firebug or just putting `alert()` statements in the approriate places while debugging will help.
Thanks, I have a much clearer idea of how a javascript mixin works now. If i wanted to get the id of the textfield in the javascript would I call this.textField.getID();?
Probably `this.textField.id`.
Applet to Object tags
  im trying to get from applet to object so i can resolve z-index issues.  The first applet tag works...my conversion to object doesn't.  Can anyone point me in the right direction?     From:       To:    
  The HtmlConverter tool in the jdk/bin directory should help you to create the Object tag (at least with an old version of Java). Now Sun (euh Oracle) recommends the applet tag and even jnlp. Look at the deployJava.js script.     I don't think changing it to object will fixed your problem as the applet will be still be paint above the HTML.  
  Firefox fails with a classid attribute. The below should work cross browser:-       In my tests both IE8 and FF5 required the "type" attribute. The mayscript param is only required for Java plugins before 1.6.0.10. The scriptable param is still required according to javadocs 1.6.0.21. In a test with 1.6.0.24 for a signed applet, IE8 called it OK from JS without scriptable being set true.  
*"The below should work cross browser"*  The `deployJava.js` is also intended to work cross-browser, and it is maintained by Oracle.
  Why you do not use deployment toolkit ? It would save you a lot of trying - see    http://rostislav-matl.blogspot.com/2011/10/java-applets-building-with-maven.html    for more info.  
Browser removing + from request parameter
  I'm trying to pass an SQL query string from a Java Applet to Servlet as a parameter.     Problem is that in Applet I have something say:   sql=select * from p where(+p=1)     The resulting sql parameter in the Servlet is sql=select * from p where(+p=1).     So anyone knows how to prevent the browser from removing the + character from parameters?     Is there a escape character?     Thank you.  
Where does the JavaScript come into play here?
  Do not EVER do this. This is the direct way for the SQL injection (for example any user can insert the DELETE request to the get string and crash your server)  
Yeah I know...can't really do anything about it.  Web application is an intranet so thats a relief.
I hate to be one of those infosec astronaut types, but the reality is most attacks on an application are internal. Although my employer is wonderful (ahem) and would never cause disgruntlement (cough cough) in its employees, your mileage may vary.
  You can use      java.net.URLEncoder      for this.         That said, the whole idea is leaky and very prone to attacks. One could easily reveal the URL and manually send a    DELETE FROM p    to it. Rather send    commands    as parameters, not complete SQL queries. Keep and hide the SQL queries in the server side.  
Hey that's a good idea.  I'll try encoding the +. Thanks.
No, not only the `+`. The **whole** parameter value.
Help creating a JavaScript mixin in Tapestry5?
  I am creating a mixin which renders a javascript file when a textfield gains focus.     I am new to the idea of mixins in Tapestry, and I am unsure of where to place my original javascript file which i wish to run when the textfield gains focus.     The following is an example of my code: The Java mixin class:       The Javascript mixin file:       part of my javascript file I wish to run when the textfield gains focus:       My javascript file is much larger than above, my question is where should I put my javascript code above?     Should it all be contained in the mixin.js file? if so where exactly should it go?     Thanks in advance for any help.  
  The method is ok free-floating in mixin.js but with name like init, you might have a conflict. You can put it in the JSDasher class itself or move the body to the onFocus function. You can also define any other functions on the JSDasher class and call them with this.function_name. Look at datefield.js in the Tapestry source as an example.  
Thanks for your response. I am still a bit unclear maybe I didn't phrase my question correctly. I know where to put the mixin.js file, I am just unsure whether i should have my original js code seperate from the mixin.js file. If so how can i call the init() method from my original js code. Should it be included somehow in the mixin.js? I hope this makes sense. Thanks again.
I updated the answer because I misunderstood the question.
Thanks again..just one more question. Is it possible to call a method from another javascript file from the mixin.js file. My javascript file is very big and sends requests to a php socket running on another server. So i need to keep my javascript code in the root of the other server along with the php socket. i.e. I need to keep the mixin.js code seperate from my other javascript code. What I would like to do is somehow hook into the external javascript code in the onfocus event.  Any help here would be great.
If the JavaScript code is loaded into the user's browser on the same page, then you can call it. You can load JavaScript files from multiple servers so mixin.js can come from your Tapestry server and another .js file can come from the PHP server. As long as the external one has loaded in the browser before mixin.js tries to call functions in it, you should be ok. So if I understand you correctly, you should have add a line like       in your page or layout. You might also be able to do that with @IncludeJavaScriptLibrary using the full URL.
java and jsp_session expired_redirect
  I am working with java and jsp for mail project. I want to redirect the page with xml r by some way when the session is expired or I want to deactivate the window when session is expired.     thanks in advance.  
  If I understood you correct you want the Webbrowser to change to another page, if the session expires.     There are some ways to do this:       Javascript redirect with    setTimeout(location.href='/logoff.jsp', 3600)       MATA-Tag REFESH:      meta http-equiv="refresh" content="3600; url=/loggedoff.jsp"             In both examples, the session invalidates after 3600 seconds. You should redirect the browser slightly before the session invalidates, just to be sure.  
Dojo JSON call back always returns an error
  I am using Dojo and making a AJAX call to a JAVA Class and trying to get the output of the program to a Alert box to the client.       This is my code, showResult basically is call back function from xhr request. I can see console.dir(store) printed onto Firebug but the fetch function always returns the onError block.      My store array is of the form {info="Test Message"} and I need to retrieve "Test Message" and display it in a Alert box. Any help?  
  If the    result    is just an array, you should use    new dojo.data.ItemFileReadStore({data : {items : result}})    to create the store.     For example,    result    is    [{info : "Test Message 1"}, {info : "Test Message 2"}]   , then the code should be:    
Thanks for the constructor suggestion. It does seem perfect!  Although, I still get "Error! alert boxes. So, the onError is getting executed! Any ideas?
I think the reason is that you have JavaScript error in the onItem handler, which triggers the onError handler. Use simple logic in onItem first to make sure the store is created correctly. Then debug your onItem handler to find the errors.
  try    store.fetch( { query:  {info: '*'}}, onItem: function(data) {  alert("Hie"); },                             onError: function(error,request){ alert("ERROR");}             });       as well you may want to see if    onComplete : function(items){console.log(items);}    works instead of onItem, it is worth a try.     As well console.log your error so that you can see what the issue is.     A few other things does you store have an identifier and label set?  
MapReduce programming system in java-actionscript
  Just finished reading ch23 in the excellent 'Beautiful Code'    http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596510046       on Distributed Programming with MapReduce. I understand that MapReduce is a programming system designed for large-scale data processing problems, but I have a hard time getting my head around the basic examples given and how I might apply them in real world situations.     Can someone give a simple example of MapReduce implemented using either java, javascript or actionscript?  
  For further information on MapReduce i would recommend you spend some time on the following topics:       Apache Hadoop     MongoDB mapreduce features     Patterns For Cloud Computing       You can experiment with MongoDB for starters (http://www.mongodb.org/display/DOCS/MapReduce)  
    GridGain    is another MapReduce framework for Java which I find a lot easier to grasp than Hadoop.     Have a look at the examples in   http://www.gridgainsystems.com/wiki/display/GG15UG/Examples+Gallery    
JAVA or JAVA SCRIPT OR Idoc SCRIPT alphabetical sort
  I have the following task:     All items within categories should be sorted alphabetically except for Examples. Special characters and numbers should be displayed before letters.     I'm facing with a problem. Most of standard sort functions and plugins are being used the ASCII table. In this table the following symbols: ~,},{ etc. have the index more than letters,for example:  Actual result of sorting is:       I need to get:       Please give me your piece of advice or any  examples ASAP.     Best Regards.   
You say "All items within categories should be sorted alphabetically except for " but do not finish the sentence.  We can't help you unless we know what the exception(s) is/are.  Could you elaborate?
Sorry for misunderstanding. Examples - it is a category of items. So it doesn't change the main sence of the task. "All items within categories should be sorted alphabetically"
  "short of time" solution : cut data in 3 arrays or lists : special chars, numbers, chars. (test if is number or is between 'a' and 'Z'). Sort them with f.e. Collections.sort or Arrays.sort in Java which will sort each collection or array and then append them together but don't make any sorting anymore. I haven't tested this, but it looks like it might work  
  This is a little tedious, mostly to keep '100' from sorting before '2'.     You can split the strings into individual characters and groups of digits.     Sort any digit groups like numbers, and sort everything else by character code, after adding some 'weight' to any a-z character.    
How can I pass a javaScript function to a Java Method to act as a callback (Rhino)
  Basically I'm trying to pass a javaScript function to a Java method to act as a callback to the script.     I can do it - sort of - but the object I receive is a sun.org.mozilla.javascript.internal.InterpretedFunction and I don't see a way to invoke it.     Any ideas?      Here's what I have so far:    
Is this an applet? If not it's impossible as the JavaScript code is executed client-side, while the Java Code is executed server-side. You're runtime variables are lost in that process. You will need to call the Java through a `POST` or `GET` request, passing your data as a request parameter.
@FK82 - Rhino is a JavaScript interpreter written in Java (it is included in the Java 6 JVM as part of the script API).
@McDowell: The OP wasn't specific from which runtime he was trying to call the Rhino/JavaScript function.
    sun.org.mozilla.javascript.internal.InterpretedFunction    implements the interface    sun.org.mozilla.javascript.Function   .  That interface has a method on it called    call    that takes:       a    Context       a    Scriptable    to use as the scope     a    Scriptable    to use as the value of    this    within the function     an array of    Objects    that are the arguments to the function       So, what I suggest is that in java you cast the object you were passed as a    sun.org.mozilla.javascript.Function    and call    call   .  The first two arguments can be whatever you used from java to start the script in the first place.  The way you're using it there, the last two arguments can be    null    and    new Object[0]   .  
The sun.org.mozilla.javascript.Function is not available in the built-in Rhino engine in Java 6. I'll it with the downloadable rhino jar.
Note that in the downloadable Rhino jar, the interface is called `org.mozilla.javascript.Function` - Sun renamed all the interfaces in the version they ship in their JDK.
  Implement an interface:    
I think the question was not how to invoke a Java method from Javascript - for which you have given an example, but how to pass a Javascript function to a Java method and invoke the function from Java code.
@Christian Semrau - the interface implementation should invoke the JavaScript function (where I call `print`)
McDowell is correct. Thanks!  The method callFromRhino can be defined like this and it works!  public void callFromRhino(Runnable callback) {         callback.run();     }
Now I see. The JavaScript implements an interface (`Runnable` here) and calls the Java method which in turn calls back the script-implemented interface.
  The solution is actually to invoke it in another script.  This sort of works:       When you get back the reference to a function, you need to ask the engine to execute that function for you.  And although not pretty, asking js to eval() it for you with a specific set of bindings will actually do the job for you.  You need to take care that the variables you're manipulating belong to the right scope; I guess it's easy to make mistakes here.  
Thanks interesting.
You're welcome.  I was struggling with the same problem and didn't find a satisfactory answer to your question, so I felt a working answer was warranted.  Since the answer I've verified that this works really well, and it seemingly isn't hard to have callbacks calling java, calling functions with parameters.  It's really cool!  Makes me wonder if it's possible to port node.js to rhino. lol.
  This example covers implementing java interface with javascript. That's also can be used for invocation of javascript callbacks from java.    
Retrieving image from database using Ajax
  I'm trying to read image from database with Ajax, but I could not read the    xmlhttp.responseText    to the img src. The image is saved as binary data in database and also retrieved as binary data. I'm using Ajax in JSP, because I want to give the user the ability to upload images and I will view the last uploaded image, on mouse over action the Ajax will be activated and get the image back, the problem is in reading the img from the response.     This is the Ajax function:       I also got exception in the server:    
Can't you just set the src attribute of the image to point to a URL that gets you the image data? Is there really a reason you're using "ajax"?
Can you post the code you have so far? It is very difficult to imagine what you have done and how you have done it and come up with suggestions.
Cripes, stop using "ajax" just because the cool kids use it... there's no point in using XHR here.
ok then how i can trigger request for the jsp file that read the image on mouse over action? i tried to use the attribute  myimage.src="get_image.jsp?...." i get the image once and when it changed in DB by user upload , the action mouse over again should request the jsp file again and change the img src , but that would not happen
@ama: See http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2841730/use-ajax-to-reload-captcha
oh thnx the problem solved ,"The browser is just loading the image for you when it detects the new source" , i was just need to insert time to the request of jsp page :  Image.src='get_image.jsp?s='+(new Date()).getTime();
  Why are you storing the images in the DB? Save them as files and save the URL in the DB.     That way you can use AJAX to call a PHP that will read the DB, pull out the URL for the image and return it to you, so you can do something like:    
I don't want to use files , and I'm restrict with using AJAX and JSP files
May I ask why? Interesting discussion on saving in the filesystem vs the DB http://www.webmasterworld.com/forum88/9091.htm
As suggested before I think it's best to just set the src to the URL that fetches you the image. This also avoids having a lot of code that just gets an image from a URL!
because i want to be able to get the old images for each user any time i want
Storing them as files won't prevent you from doing that.
yes i know , but as i said i need to go with this way , there is any suggestion how to get the src from the response ??
the src is the URL you make the xmlhttprequest to..
can u explain more plz..
  That's not the way how it works. As answered before, you basically just need to change the    src    attribute of the      img      element to a different URL. The webbrowser will then reload the image itself automagically.      In case of JSP/Servlet, the URL should just point to a    Servlet    class which obtains an    InputStream    of the image from the database and writes it to the    OutputStream    of the response the usual Java IO way along with a set of response headers.     Here is how your Javascript instead should look like:       In    this answer    you can find a complete example how the    Servlet    should look like.       The    SocketException: broken pipe    is just a sign that the client side didn't process the response at all and aborted it. If you get rid of that Ajax stuff and do it as explained above, then it should work flawlessly.  
yes I see ,that is what I did for obtain the image from DB the problem was in sending the request for the jsp file ,when I add the time as parameter to the request ,the browser found new request each time ,so there will be new src for the image and the browser will load the image.
So, what's the problem?
there is no problem now , i solve it ,thnx
Ah OK. You're welcome. I however see that you're new here. You are supposed to vote the useful answers (click the up arrow) and accept the most helpful answer (click the checkmark). Also see this link to learn how Stackoverflow works: http://stackoverflow.com/faq :)
Inserting Struts Tiles attribute into a JavaScript function
  I'm trying to insert a Struts Tiles attribute into a JavaScript function. The JS function is called on load and certain JSP pages should be allowed to append additional code to that function.     The template looks like this:       And the JSP site that implements this template like this:       Unfortunately, the attribute is inserted not into the JS function, but somewhere outside in the HTML head.     Do you know a way how I can achieve my goal?  
  JS runs at the client side, not at the server side. Tiles runs at the server side, not at the client side. In other words, they doesn't run in the sync as you'd expect from your coding attempt. The server generates HTML/CSS/JS code based on the server side taglibs and then sends it to the client side.     You really need to solve this at the server side. Since the goal is a bit unclear and I don't do Struts/Tiles, I can't go in detail. But you should now at least understand the cause of the problem. Also see    this article    for more insights.  
But shouldn't the Struts tile be pasted into the JSP before the JavaScript is run on the client?
JSF form does not get submitted when form is disabled by JavaScript
  This is the submit button:       This is the form:       If the submit button is pressed, the page shows a "busy" icon until request is processed.  The problem is, the form is never submitted and the request never reaches the backend.  However, if I instead take out the "disabled" call like so:       Then everything works. Any ideas?  
  Change    this.disabled = true    into    [buttonref].disabled = true    
Appreciate your answer...but this would only disable the button, right?  What if I want to disable the whole page?  Also, do you know why this wouldn't work?
You mean the whole form? Then you need to to that after returning true, e.g using `var a = this; setTimeout(function(){a.disabled = true;},0);return true`
  I'm pretty sure that disabling the whole form will mean to the browser that you don't want it to be submittable. When you disable individual input elements, those aren't included in the parameters sent to the server when the form is posted.  
  You've disabled the entire form, you need to disable just the button instead.     Also you will want to ensure that your busyProcess() returns a truthy value or the submission could be disabled as well.  
He wants to disable all avenues of triggering a second submit - the "Enter" key etc.
  if you want the user not to submit anything, let a layer appear above the form and remove the focus from the active component.     Another way would be to make sure the AJAX requests use a common channel that has a queue in which only one request is processed at a time (easy using frameworks like prototype etc)  
  JSF relies on the presence of the name-value pair of the submit button to invoke a specific action in the server side. If you disable the form (at least, the button) before submitting the form, then no information will be available in the request parameter map and JSF will not invoke any action.     Your best bet is to introduce a timeout wherein you disable the button about 50ms after submitting. E.g.       The explicit    return true;    at end is by the way superflous. Also, disabling the the HTML form element directly ain't going to work since it doesn't have a    disabled    attribute, you want to disable the button (and if necessary the other input elements as well).      Here's some improvement:       with           Update   : since I wondered that you told that it "works", I tested the form's    disabled    attribute in various browsers, it only works in MSIE (surprising..), but not in the other (real) browsers. You don't want to be browserdependent, so forget it and go ahead with disabling the form's individual elements.  
  BalusC, your very creative timeout option works well.  I actually came to the same conclusion when I tried the "disabled" attribute in other browsers.  It didn't disable the form at all in Opera and Firefox.  I just chalk it up to those browsers being more versatile than IE.     Sean K, disabling the button only without setting a timeout produces the same issue as the form disable, as info is passed to the server.     Thanks for all your help guys!  
Java applet for Tower of Hanoi
  I am planning to write a Java applet for Tower of Hanoi similar to link(   http://www.mazeworks.com/hanoi/index.htm    ) Can you suggest how should I start and proceed.      And, btw, does it require multi threading?     And also, major part of my doubt is          to make a disc being clickable and being able to drag and drop the disc on a tower.         detect a tower (if a disc is being dragged using mouse)      
Hmm, would this be a homework problem?
Java is to Javascript, what Car is to Carpet... I'm just saying.
@Cristian: Many applets take their input via Javascript.  When you're talking Java *applets*, there is a reason to connect the two.
Some applets do so... but not all of them. So... no reason to mix those two complete different terms.
  I would start with this    http://www.rstack.com/hanoi/hanoi_src.html    or    http://stud1.tuwien.ac.at/~e9125168/javaa/jtower.html   . As far as threading see my comment on Jonathan M Davis's answer.  
  You can do it with javafx it is easier than core java.    Here    is an example  
How do I create multiple file downloader without ActiveX?
  I want to create multiple file downloader without Activex on web page. please answer me how to do.  
...not to mention a rather unclear question.
  Try compressing the files into a single zip file and offer to download that file.  
Flex/Flash 4 ExternalInterface.call - trying to get a string from HTML to Actionscript
  I need to obtain a string from HTML and put it into Actionscript.     the actionscript:       the javascript:       the JSP:       the rendered HTML:       when the javascript execution hits       a null is returned and crashes, no alert shows no error message is shown. I can successfully do a search firefox DOM Inspector by "username-label" (document.getElementById())     The only alert box that pops up is the action script alert box and the contents are blank.     firfox 3.5 windows, container is Tomcat.     Please advise, and thank you in advance.  
    Now create a button and call this function getUserName and now try to put a alert message in JavaScript and see if that calls.     Make the method Public and let us know whether you are able to call the JavaScript method name. See the changes i made in u r function       Note   : Protected and Private will also work, this is just for testing.       More Update:         Update your JavaScript function to above and let me know.      Thanks.  
* I have made it public, though it still works with protected (as you noted). * I have removed everything in the javascript message except alert("javascript land"); and the alert successfully fires. Only as soon as I do a document.getElementsById("username-label"); it bombs with a null and any other alert afterwards or before do not fire. * also redid the actionscript String "findUserName" this predictably had no impact. * I already have a button attached to findUserName. So I can get into javascript land but from there....
Did you try to see in firebug or through an alert whether the  value you are getting in javascript is not null. I think you are checking it, just cross checking on this.
Check down my update and let me know... Thanks
the database just went down, the db team are at it right now - and im ITCHING to get at this: I notice you did this "getElementById(username-label);" the username-label has no "". I bet this works... get right back to you.
Sorry in reply to the previous comment - yes I did firebug it and the value was only null - (well cross checked) --- you can see im fiddling my fingers waiting for this db to come back online
Okay I tried "getElementById(username-label);" without the "" and it hangs on that statement. I tried it with single quotes ' ' and it returns a null. the alert displays the word null. The if statement afterwards does not get hit and it hangs.
At least I can return a string: so if I only include a return "string"; then the action script displays the pop up correctly.
might be the issue http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2632137/severe-issues-with-document-getelementbyid
I used Hexagon Theory's answer to solve it :) http://stackoverflow.com/questions/536538/pass-value-to-iframe-from-a-window
The problem was: the documnet was the flash container html page and not the whole html page. So the username value was not actually in the document. therefore a null was returned.
How to count the advertisement hits and stores it in database
  We put our website advertisement in 2 other websites. We need to count the hits we are getting form those advertisement and like to store it in my database. Please give me an idea to do that.  
What language? PHP? C#? Python? What tech? Asp.Net Webforms? Asp.Net MVC?
I am using JSF Framework....
  The links to your website should have a parameter with some key that will allow you to identify the partner site.     Another approach would use the Referer http header but is less reliable.  
  Sorry, I din't understood at first place the question.     You can grab the referer using PHP or link the banners to a landing page instead of to the home directly (ex:    http://yoursite.com/banner.php?id=N   , you can identify the referer with PHP and with the banner ID and then redirect the user to your home.  
Accessing selected node of richfaces tree from Javascript
  This should be a very simple question. I have a richfaces tree that is rendered using JSF. When the user clicks on a node I want a javascript function to run. Nothing more nothing less. No redirects, no re-submit, no-rerender, no Ajax. Just plain old Javascript.     I have seen the    onselected    attribute of the tree and it indeed fires a Javascript method. But of course I want to know which node was clicked.     Here is what I have so far       But this does not work because nodeRef is undefined. I expected that the first argument of the callback would be the selected node but this is not the case.     So the question is this:     How do I fire a Javascript function with the selected node from a richfaces tree?  
    I have little experience with JSF, but shouldn't    this    (in the scope of your event handler) be referring to the selected node, as it usually does in JavaScript?     Change your function to this and try it out:         EDIT: the above was obviously not correct. As per my comment below, change your JSF to     
I thought the same thing! I have already tried it. "This" refers to the whole browser window and not the selected node.
Do you have a public URL to your test page? I am really suspicious towards these Java/JSF-to-JavaScript frameworks. Probably because I don't know them well, but it would help very much to see what kind of JS-code was generated in the end. Then we can see how documentClicked actually is called, in reality.
OK, I am being stupid, it's obvious from your code how documentClicked is called. Keep your original function and call it in onselected like this: documentClicked(this).
  The answer is that the javascript code should be on the node level instead of the tree level.    
Eclipse javascript character encoding
  I'd like to display some language specific characters from javascript but I can't.     My app is a Java webapp and the front end is jQuery. All the characters that are sended from the server - in a JSP or with AJAX - are displayed properly. When I want to display some text hardcoded in to the javascript file it's broken.     I'm using Eclipse. In the JSP's header I use:       I've tried this (charset in the script element) too:       In my Eclipse I've set the project properties / text file encoding to UTF-8 AND I've checked the JS files' resource properties / text file encoding that is UTF-8 too.     But when I try this:       I get:       The strange thing is that: When I try in a separate html file (in the same project), It's working:       Even if I DO NOT use any content type and page encoding settings.     What is the problem? What shall I do? (I'm using Apache Tomcat integrated in Eclipse)     Thanks in advance!  
are you using any filter that handles the html? what happens if you use the script tag to import the js file instead of c:import?
  The    c:import    uses the server platform default encoding if the encoding is absent in the response header of the request. Rather just use    src    attribute instead. The webbrowser is smarter in this.       (if necessary remove the leading slash if you're running on a fixed context instead of on domain root)     If you really, really need the    c:import    for this (for which I honestly don't see    any    advantage in this particular situation), then you need to write a    Filter    listening on    /JS/*    which sets the appropriate    Content-Type    header with the correct encoding on the response. This however won't work if it concerns an external URL, it's then the responsibility of the external server.  
Yeah, you're right! Thank you very much!
You're welcome. Try not to overcomplicate things ;)
Displaying HTML contents over an applet - wmode transparent?
  For Flash content, I can set    wmode="transparent"    and display HTML menus over my Flash animation. Is something similar possible for Java applets, too?  
  According to    this    and    this   , it's not possible... Maybe someone else has a way, but as far as I know, there isn't any way to accomplish this...  
Just to clarify - I want to display contents over the applet (for example, a DHTML menu with clickable links), not under it. But so far no luck...
Yeah... however as far as I know, just like flash, if the applet isn't transparent it effectively is on the topmost layer, "immune" to z-index. Like I said, maybe there is a way, if so you've asked on the right site!
By default, both flash and applets run in a window, not a layer, and are thus (equal to select dropdowns) not applicable to changes in z-index. Flash player behaviour can be configured, no idea about an applet.
Pass a parameter has its onload
    and I want to send a parameter from my action  
Learn more about the wall between Java/JSP and JavaScript here: http://balusc.blogspot.com/2009/05/javajspjsf-and-javascript.html
  just put your parameter in there like this:       (assuming the parameter is a String or has a usable toString() method)  
  Your HTML syntax is wrong. It should be        If you are actually passing a string parameter don't forget to quote and escape it:    
JSF, Richfaces: How to run Javascript method each time rich:datatable (re)renders?
  I have a rich:datatable which may be reRendered my multiple components in my page.     I want to run a Javascript method each time it is rendered, including the first time the page loads.     How can I do this?  
    You can call the function on    oncomplete    of each of the components that reRender the datatable     the initial call is jsf-agnostic - just place the call at the end of the document, or    window.onload = function() {..}      
cross domain DOM access and manipulation in Java?
  In my Java app, how can I incorporate the browser (which loads and renders URLs) in Swing  and access it's DOM and manipulate HTML ?     How can you embed such browser in a Rich Internet Application and access it's DOM ? More specifically, Vaadin ? Is there a HTTP proxy class that can load an external URL, and render it to the user ? This was what I was doing on LAMP stack....but I want to switch to Vaadin or some Java web framework where I can just use Java to do everything from server-side to client-side logic design, so I can focus more on application logic. (aka looking for developer friendly frameworks like Vaadin).     Thank you and have a great weekend !  
See [How to display html in a java application?](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/817609/how-to-display-html-in-a-java-application), in particular [DJ Project](http://djproject.sourceforge.net/ns/).
yes i am looking for something like that but it must work with a web framework like Vaadin
  NetBeans have been making strides in this direction. See their    wiki   , but I don't think they can get hold of the DOM.  
Javascript library to reliably load Java Applets?
  Flash users have the wonderful    SwfObject    JavaScript library that abstracts browser differences to reliably embed swfs into their web pages.  Is there a JavaScript library like this for Java Applets?  
  Oracle itself comes with    deployJava.js    for this. Here's an example copied from the link:         script src="http://www.java.com/js/deployJava.js"     /script     script       var attributes = {codebase:'http://java.sun.com/products/plugin/1.5.0/demos/jfc/Java2D',                       code:'java2d.Java2DemoApplet.class',                       archive:'Java2Demo.jar',                       width:710, height:540} ;     var parameters = {fontSize:16} ;     var version = '1.6' ;     deployJava.runApplet(attributes, parameters, version);   /script      
did you heard about pulpcore.js?
What is the difference between C++, Java and JavaScript exception handling?
  They are very different kind of languages and the way they handle exceptions might be rather different.. How is exception handling implemented and what are the implementation difference within these languages?     I am asking this question also because I noticed that C++ exception handling seems to be very slow compared to the JavaScript version.  
C++   on which platform and which compiler?
I realized only after answering, do you mean by implementation the low-level details such as how Java constructs stacktraces and tracks the path of failure or something more high-level to which my answer is aimed to answer?
How could C++ exception handling possibly be slower than JavaScript? With what browser, on what platform, running what code, compared to what compiler, on what platform, compiling what code?
@DeadMG C++ exceptions are often several orders of magnitude more costly than normal function returns; in JavaScript (at least before JIT, I'm not so sure now) the difference between the two is a lot less.
How many exceptions do you plan on throwing?  They're supposed to be *exceptional* cases.  Forgive me for being blunt, but why would you care how fast it is?
@KennyTM, on gcc, linux, but is there that much of a difference between C++ implementations? I am just wondering of the basic principles behind them to understand the differences between the languages. @Kristo I just saw an horrifying code in Javascript, try-catch in a big loop and it seemed "faster" than I thought whereas in my mind, doing that in C++ is not even conceivable. Hence my asking, and I care because I am curious.
@Pete Kirkham: More expensive (maybe) orders of magnitude I find that an incredible statement to make without a reference.
@Dpp: It is quite possible to do. But most experienced C++ programmers would not do it as it smacks of inappropriate use. Faster than you though is a bit subjective and how did you compare that to an equivalent to a C++ version.
I guessed that interpreted language handle exceptions differently than with a compiled one. Do you guys say it is supposedly the same speed?
  I know just the basics of C++ exception handling but as far as I can see, Java has excplicit    Object   -based hierarchy for exceptions (     Throwable     ,      Exception     ,      RuntimeException     ,      Error     ) while in C++ you can do       This of course reflects to the design of your class structures and general exception handling policies etc.     Other difference introduced by this seemingly minor difference is that C++ really only has what would be known as Runtime Exceptions in Java world, which means that you can throw anything at any time without explicitly writing code to handle the throw pseudo-exception (   I'm not willing to call    int    or any other primitive type an exception, they're just possibly exceptional values   ).     Lastly, due to their nature when compared to Java's exceptions C++ exceptions don't    by default    contain anything comparable to Java's stacktraces.  
It is recommended though in C++ to use classes that derive from std::exception
in JavaScript too, you can throw anything (besides the pre-defined Error objects). it s just a question, how useful that is.
  If you're asking about how it internally generates these exceptions, then it's a pretty complex issue.     One approach (that I think C++ and Java use, I dont know about Javascript), is to maintain a stack of error handlers. When an exception is thrown, the the top entry is popped off the stack and handles the exception appropriately or pops another entry from the stack if it can't handle it (such as it received a NullPointerException when the top handler is a OutOfBoundException).  
This strategy (a handler stack) is not used by any Java implementation that I've heard of.
  The most detailed answer I found regarding Exception handling and performance/implementation is on this page:   http://lazarenko.me/tips-and-tricks/c-exception-handling-and-performance    
the way to get a value from a hidden type correctly
  in a html table i construct in each row an edit button like the following:       this is the hidden type then i do the following:       here i am using the hidden type to differentiate between my rows with it. Now I am trying to get the parameter called here: value=\""+object.getIdDailyTimeSheet() in my servlet to do an update query based on the IdDailyTimeSheet. I didn't until know find the way to get this value every time i click the edit button (i do its submit with the javascript).     thanks for help.                        
eh.. what is that.. a servlet? If so - don't to it like that at all. Use JSP, and valid html!
Follow-up of http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2904659/pass-value-to-servlet-from-a-hidden-input-type
  You can send the    id    parameter with the    GET    HTTP method in each row:       where:         URL    is the URL to which you submit this form to and       id    is what you build with "id_" + nomTab + "_" + compteur    
  You can get the id from the HttpServletRequest request variable in doGet()/doPost() methods using the getParameter() method. Example: request.getParameter("edit"). "edit" is the name of the input field.     Your html code is not valid. You should quote your attributes. Also you might consider doing the html output in JSP instead of appending strings in a servlet.     Like Bruno said. It might be easyer to create href links width an id request parameter instead of forms with hidden input fields.  
  You're unnecessarily overcomplicating things. First, HTML should not be emitted by a Servlet, but should be embedded as template in a JSP. Second, to achieve what you want, each button must sit in its own      form      element. Here's a kickoff example:     Servlet which loads the table data:         list.jsp    which displays the table data:       Servlet which processes the edit:       No need for Javascript hacks to pass the row ID.  
Servlet container; What is it and do I need it in my case?
  I have just ordered a VPS from my provider.     I have some Q however... My website uses Solr, which requires the following according to their website:       I also need    php 5   ,    MySql   , and the usual    javascript etc...   The OS is    Ubuntu 9.10       1- So what do I need to install then?     2- What is a servlet container?     3- The solr I have downloaded came with Jetty. Is Jetty a Servlet container?     Thanks  
  A Servlet container is basically a web server for Java Servlets and JSP pages.     Tomcast and Jetty are both Servlet containers.     In the phrase you quoted, it is using the phrase "Application server" interchangeably with "Servlet container".  While Solr may only require a Servlet container, it shouldn't use the terms interchangeably.     The Servlet container is only part of a J2EE application server.  Some other application servers (that also include Servlet containers) are    JBoss    and    Apache Geronimo   ; Geronimo uses either Tomcat or Jetty depending on which set you install.     If you also need PHP, a Servlet Container won't be enough... you'll also need a normal webserver.     Installing the    libapache2-mod-php5    module from the Ubuntu repository should install both PHP5 and Apache 2.2 for you.  To install MySQL, install the    mysql-server    and    php5-mysql    packages.     Assuming you only have command-line access, installing packages on Ubuntu is done using the    aptitude    or    apt-get    programs; aptitude is preferred.     Before you install new programs, you should always run    aptitude update   , which updates the local index of which programs are available.  Afterwards, you can upgrade existing packages with    aptitude safe-upgrade    and install new packages with    aptitude install    packagename      (without the          )     Ubuntu is usually pretty good about keeping the available package list up to date, and will periodically tell you on login that some packages have available upgrades.  Since upgrades are almost always security updates, it is a good idea to check for them.  
Could you define the last part of your answer? How does that work?
@Camran: I've updated my answer a bit, including defining the difference between an App Server and Servlet Container.  Also, add some instructions on Apache/PHP/MySQL.
In server side java, all the application servers I'm aware of include a servlet container, plus more. The 2 I'm readily aware of that are ONLY servlet containers are Jetty and Tomcat. Glassfish and Geronimo are open source application servers that add an EJB container, Java messaging service and more. I haven't worked with Jetty a lot beyond local testing, but I think Tomcat might scale up better.
@mezmo: Whoops, I didn't mean to imply that there were app servers that didn't include servlet containers.  Rephrased it a bit.
Added more notes on using `aptitude` to upgrade/install packages.
       3- The solr I have downloaded came   with Jetty. Is Jetty a Servlet   container?       Yes, Jetty is a Web server and Servlet container. A servlet container is a web server that interacts with servlets, and you need one of those to host your servlets, execute them, etc.     An application server typically hosts many other facilities, such as security, authentication, Java Mail, EJB container, and many others.  
What do I need to install then? I am guessing Apache? or is there any install package which comes with MySql, Php and all necessary apps?
Since you are on Ubuntu, check out the Ubuntu server guide. What you describe is a LAMP stack (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP) and there is good documentation on installing such a stack https://help.ubuntu.com/9.10/serverguide/C/index.html
  PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor is a widely used, general-purpose scripting language that was originally designed for web development to produce dynamic web pages. PHP 5 included new features such as improved support for object-oriented programming, the PHP Data Objects extension (which defines a lightweight and consistent interface for accessing databases), and numerous performance enhancements.     Servlets are Java programming language objects that dynamically process requests and construct responses. Jetty is the simplest/smallest servlet container that could be run easily in a cross platform way. That does not imply that Solr runs better under Jetty, or that Jetty is only good enough for demos, it's just that Jetty makes demo setup easier.     Users should decide for themselves which Servlet Container they consider the easiest/best for their use cases based on their needs/experience. For high traffic scenarios, investing time for tuning the servlet container can often make a big difference.  
       I also need php 5, MySql, and the usual javascript etc... The OS is Ubuntu 9.10           1- So what do I need to install then?       Use    Apache HTTPD    server for PHP, use    Apache Tomcat    for JSP/Servlet, use    mod_jk    to let HTTPD play proxy for Tomcat so that you can run PHP and JSP at one same site.     Since JavaScript is a    client side    language, you don't need to worry about it at the server side.          2- What is a servlet container?       A webserver with a JSP/Servlet API implementation. An application server is usually more than that. JSP/Servlet is only a little part of the huge    Java EE API   . A fullfledged application server implements pretty much all of Java EE API.          3- The solr I have downloaded came with Jetty. Is Jetty a Servlet container?       Yes, it is. It however doesn't support PHP. You need Apache HTTPD for PHP. However I am not aware of ways to connect Jetty with HTTPD.  
It would really be good if I could use jetty, because I have no knowledge of servlet containers, so tomcat is probably difficult for me to install and make solr work on... Have you managed to adapt solr to Tomcat? Does it take time? Difficulty?
It's basically easy if you **know** the stuff. Here's a Solr-Tomcat guide http://wiki.apache.org/solr/SolrTomcat
how can i refresh table content without refreshing all the page
  i have a table and the content of it is all from data base ,which is a rows of student names and a columns of questions, and with this table an instructor can track the students progress of solving question on real time, so what i  want is to  update the only the table ,     without    refreshing the whole page, which causes starting at the beginning of the page so it would distract the instructor,, any suggestion   
Are you looking for a step-by-step answer or someone to just point you in the right direction?
actually , i would really appreciate it if some one could show me how to do it a step-by-step..
  Use AJAX.     Check this out:   AJAX/PHP/MySQL       This edit is an answer to your latter comment--     To refresh your content every two seconds you would need to to request via ajax every two seconds. You could do so by calling your ajax function using setInterval() like so:       setInterval("ajaxFunction('someParams, 'someParams')", 2000);       But      all this does is request from the server every two seconds     , but refreshes whenever your sever responds, which by the way might take longer than exactly two seconds.  
yeah i want the content automatically updated for each 2 seconds
  as suggested by @Babiker you can use ajax to refresh the content. But instead of updating the whole table, you  can update only the cells required. in your case you can refresh the questions column.   
javascript problems when generating html reports from within java
  I have been working on a Java project in which the reports will be generated in HTML, so I am implementing methods for creating these reports. One important functionality is to be able to have as much info as possible in the tables, but still not clutter too much. In other words the details should be available if the user wishes to take a look at them but not necessarily visible by default.      I have done some searching and testing and found an interesting template for hiding/showing content with the use of CSS and javascript, the problem is that when I try the resultant html page the scripts dont work. I am not sure if it's due a problem in Java or in the javascript itself. I have compared the html code that java produces to the source where I found the template, they seem to match pretty well.      Below are bits of my java code that generates the javascript and the content, i would greatly appreciate if anyone can point out the possible reasons for this problem:     //goes to head       // body       // content         Update    // a chunk of the html code from the page that reflects the problem    
What do you mean they don't work? You get JavaScript errors, page refresh... what exactly?
How about you give us the resulting HTML file instead of the Java code. It'd be easier to track the bug from that side...
well sorry for the ambiguity:  i get no action, that's the problem. All the static text is there but the links that should show content dont do that.  I'll try to add the HTML file, but not quite sure how.. It's not a server. So i c/p:ed some parts of the source of the page.
  It looks right to me from what I can tell, as long as your IDs are unique in the html code.      You might want to try using    firebug    (firefox plugin), it's a great javascript debugging tool.  
  A few tips:         Since the JavaScript block you generate with    addShowHideScript()    is static, I'd suggest not to write it to every page, but put in a separate file in include it with      script type="text/javascript" src="yourScript.js"     /script     .         You can drop    language="JavaScript"   . Its obsolete and unnecessary.         Don't "comment out" your Javascript with HTML comments (     !-- ... --     ). That's also obsolete and unnecessary.         It's customary to let the name of JavaScript functions start with a small letter.      
thanks for the tips, i have removed the language="" and comments.. Just wondering why is it better to move the static function off to a separate file?
It's more a matter of organization. In your case where you are generating stand alone report With HTML (if I understand you correctly) I guess it would make no big difference. Advantages would, for example, would normally be that, if you need to, you can change the script once in one place and don't need to touch all the scripts in all the HTML pages you have.
+1 for good advice
  I executed your methods and this resulted (formatting not included :D):       It works just fine on IE 8 and Firefox 3.6.     Do you have JavaScript disabled in your browser or some security restrictions that cut your scripts from running?       EDIT:    Based on the code you posted, the problem seems to be this:       If you write it like this it works:    
Odd.. I have recently tried with SeaMonkey and Opera as well, still no magic.. They all have JS enabled by the way.. Could the formatting have any role in this? I am no expert but if my memory serves me right js shouldnt be too picky about the syntax (formatting that is)
@posdef: see the edit to my answer. It worked initially because I formatted the thing. Without the formatting it can't find the ReverseDisplay function.
thanks! i guess it did the trick :)
You shouldn't "comment out" JavaScript with HTML comments ( ) in the first place. It obsolete and unnecessary.
@RoToRa: I agree with that, but to a certain point. Those were used to hide JS code from old browsers that do not support JS and that just rendered the script content as text in the page. For legacy apps that you have to maintain, it can be useful to know. Also, because we "youngsters" don't use them we don't get bitten by not inserting a line break after the  < !-- that opens the comment. Even if you don't insert them it's good to know what they are and what they do even if to ignore them. We learn every day (sometimes the hard way): http://docstore.mik.ua/orelly/web/jscript/ch18_02.html
It is very reasonable to assume that there are **no more** browsers out there that do not recognize the `script` element and do not at least ignore it. And if there were they would have much bigger problems with modern websites than displaying some script.
BTW, that web page you are referring to, is so out of date, it is not even funny. It's 13 years old and came out before IE 5 (possibly even IE 4). AFAIK that chapter doesn't even exist any more in the current edition.
OK. OK. I read you!
Multiple file uploader with previews
  I'm trying to find something that will let users upload multiple files to a website. The requirements are that it let them easily select multiple files (preferably with something like check boxes) and that it displays a preview of the images they select.     I'd prefer to only use Javascript or Flash if possible, but Java is also an option (this needs to work on platforms where Silverlight isn't available).     So far all I've been able to find are things that use the native file selector (which doesn't show previews on Windows, and makes it unclear that you can select multiple by holding ctrl).     I'm not sure if the preview requirement is even possible, but it's the most important.  
  I am assuming 2 things here:     1) Some kind of client/enduser will be doing the file upload     2) You get some kind of say on what the client installs on their computer to help make this happen.     If this is the case, my first suggestion would be:     Give them FTP or SFTP client software to upload files. The php page you make can have a link to Filezilla, along with instructions on how to use it. ftp and sftp are THE protocols to use for transferring files. HTTP is just not designed(well) for it, nor are browsers.     Once the user has the (S)FTP client software installed, you can give them URL's to upload files to that are specific to their user account, and you can have a backend script process and load/move files that they upload. It's pretty easy to create a local temporary directory using a server side script, have the client upload files via ftp, then go back to the web browser and click a button that says "Done uploading, please process my stuff".     The browser can even give back confirmations on everything that gets uploaded/processed.   
This is a web app, and FTP would make it far more complicated and harder to use. Wwe can say "You must have Flash installed to use the multiple file uploader" because most people have Flash, and it pretends to be part of the browser so there's no extra setup on their part. Very few people have Filezilla, and it does require that users put in a bunch of settings on their own. Not to mention Filezilla doesn't do any of the things I asked about anyway (previews/checkboxes), and it would require adding another script to go through the upload directory and process things (no feedback for users).
Well, this is why I hate apps like the one you are trying to design. Flash is a horrible abomination that completely screws my privacy by letting flash cookies do all kinds of tracking and other crap across sites and sessions. I can easily preview files locally on my computer already, Filezilla is a great program for doing ftp, and if a website treats me like an idiot, I will kindly respond by removing my business.  Once my files are uploaded, the server should easily be able to let me do further management, including previews, resizing/cropping, using simple javascript before saving them.
I completely understand. If was uploading files for my own use I *would* use FTP (over ssh), but most users don't want to set up an FTP client just to upload a couple photos, and when going through huge directories of badly-named files (I don't know about you, but I have them), having a preview is extremely helpful. Not to mention that I don't want to set up an FTP server and deal with permissions and folders for thousands of users. I assume this could be automated, but why bother if I can just deal with a form submission?
Now you're just making excuses. FTP server's user sets can be configured to use ldap, text files, or databases to authenticate users. They can probably even use whatever one-offed web-based user authentication scheme you've got running on your web-app. As for me, I *prefer* using my OS based navigation tools to go though directories of file images on my local comp. IMHO, the only people who have gotten this right are google with their desktop picasa app. They basically realized HTML and http based image uploading is lame, then did it the right way.
It doesn't change the fact that I'd have to set up an entire new program with authentication and a script to deal with it **and** it's more work for users. Most people would prefer to click a link, select what they want and click "Go", rather than open a different program, upload stuff, then come back to their browser and tell the web app that they're done. And of course, it's impossible to get users to do something if they have to set up themselves (why webmail and Flash games are so popular). Remember: Programmers have different preferences than most people and I'm not targeting programmers.
This it the last thing I'll say on the subject. You already have to write a script to deal with the uploaded files. You already have a user account database. Instead of writing a file browsing app in flash, you save all that trouble with a preexisting ftp client. It's not impossible to have users use a different program for something. How many people have access to web based email, but still use thunderbird, outlook, eudora, or mac mail for their email client because it's just plain *better*. Nearly everyone. Point, match, game.
One more thing: How many people *who aren't computer people* use desktop applications for email? Not a single one I've ever met (except when required by work to use Outlook).
  To upload multiple files I use    RichFaces rich:fileUpload    component.     Concerning the preview, I've got the similar problem and the best I found after couple of days of googling is following.       Alfresco    has the same problem and resolved it with :       An open office which runs in server mode (socket) and all the office documents are sent by alfresco to open office in order to convert them in PDF     Those PDF are converted to .swf viewer thanks to    SWFTOOLS       This .swf is integrated in the HTML     For images, it uses    ImageMagick    to create small version of the file I suppose       Personnaly, I will try to implement it this way :       Converting office documents to PDF thanks to open office in socket mode     Transform the first page of the PDF into a PNG thanks to    JPedal    library     Diplay that PNG to the end user     For images I would perhaps use ImageMagick too ... but for now, I'm using    Seam       Image.scaleToFit    API    
  This is a firefox solution: It uses the FileReader javascript object to load, display and upload images.       http://hacks.mozilla.org/2011/01/how-to-develop-a-html5-image-uploader/       It still doesnt show previews in the FileSelection dialog but at least allows you to preview the images before uploading.     And here is a ready made java applet solution:   http://jumploader.com/doc_overview.html    
It looks like a combination of the HTML5 `multiple="multiple"` file input and previewing built into most file pickers might be enough.
What is the better way to include dynamic content via ajax?
  Is it a better practice to retrieve    only    data from a (java) backend in xml or json format and use javascript to create the display elements (i.e. div, span, etc.) and insert the data into to them or is it better to retrieve and insert a complete "view" (data and html created by the backend)?     For example, let's say we have the following list and when a list item is hovered over the subsequent "div" displays dynamic data (see below). Is it better to just get the data, and then use js to create the "ul" and "li" elements and then insert the data into them or is it better to get the data and html combined view and insert that into the div?     
  Have a look at the jQuery .load method (http://api.jquery.com/load/) where to replace the HTML of a div you'd use:       Alternatively using the Ajax methods    http://api.jquery.com/category/ajax/    you could retrieve some JSON or XML and loop over it creating new HTML elements as needed.  
Thanks for the answer. However, while it is helpful, it doesn't answer the main question, which is -- of those two approaches (mentioned in your answer), which one is better and why?
Well I find it easier to generate the HTML on the server side as it's simpler for the client to just inject that than iterate over items and create new DOM elements.
What is the java equivalent to javascript's String.fromCharCode?
  What it the java equivalent of javascript's:         http://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_fromCharCode.asp    
http://w3fools.com/
  That would be something like as follows:       Note that casting to    char    isn't guaranteed to work because the codepoint value might exceed the upper limit of    char    (65535). The    char    was established in the dark Java ages when    Unicode 3.1    wasn't out yet which goes beyond 65535 characters.       Update   : the    String    has actually    a constructor taking an    int[]      (introduced since Java 1.5, didn't knew it from top of head), which handles this issue correctly. The above could be simplified as follows:    
+1 for Unicode perfection, but I doubt the Javascript function can correctly handle codepoints bigger than 65536.
This appears to work for most values.  I am trying: new String(new int[]{141}, 0, 1) which in javascript prints, "?" but in java does not.  Is 141 invalid?  I am trying to debug some obfuscation code I ported from Javascript to Java and am getting inconsistent results for some characters.
That's dependent on the character encoding which is a completely different story. The JS environment is apparenly using a different character encoding than Java environment. At least, the above should work flawlessly for an Unicode character encoding like UTF-8.
How can i find roughly time of song from its size
  Dear all,              I have a song say about 5.1 mb ,i want to calculate total duration of song before being played on media player the file format is wave file.   
which format? mp3? ogg? wav? and what bitrate if it's compressed?
+1 to oedo's comment, we need to know more. The size of the music file is the end-result of many factors (such as comression bitrates), not just the length of the track.
wave format plz suggest
why is this tagged java / javascript??? I would retag it if I had the slightest idea what tags to actually use...
How rough do you want it?
  It isn't really possible based on size. For example, an average MP3 is roughly 1 meg per minute, but if it has been encoded at the full 320 bit rate it can be a lot bigger than that. Your best bet would be to tell your script the size AND duration of the music file.  
My problem is that i have only size available of a particular song.i want total duration may be it can be bit roughly .please suggest
You could (roughly) divide the duration by 10 for a wav, and use the file size as the duration for mp3. i.e. wavTime = fileSize / 10;
  you can try this page :    http://www.sounddevices.com/calculator/       for an uncompressed wav - 16 bit, 44.1kHz, stereo, you're looking at 172.2 KB/second, so around 10.332 MB/second. so your file is approx 0.5 minutes  
  You need to decode the song in order to know the length of it:    
Hello Samuel,                   I used this code and got following exception. javax.sound.sampled.LineUnavailableException: line with format ULAW 8000.0 Hz, 8 bit, mono, 1 bytes/frame,  not supported.   Please resolve
Where is the exception thrown?
Which programming languages are possible on Blackberry?
  I may start porting an android application to blackberry in the next weeks.     I have my problems understanding the RIM documentation of blackberry development. But I think I understand that I can develop an off line web application. An Application that runs in some kind of WebView but is written completely in JavaScript. Sadly I can't find anything to confirm this hunch.      Has anybody of you build a Blackberry app that loads a local website into a webview?  Is this possible? Are there any tutorials for this?      Every little pointer to further information is appreciated.   
  Yes, you can create a "widget" which is an HTML/Javascript application that runs as a native app on the device.  See the BlackBerry Developer Center section on    Web Development    for more information (look for tutorials and videos for "Widgets").  
Rendering html/js in J2me app?
  Is is possible to display html document in J2ME mobile app? Is it possible using for example WebKit? I was looking for some webkit's j2me implementation or some tutorial or advice in google but found nothing.  
  Try this Framework:    Fire       LWUIT now supports html and CSS in    LWUIT 1.4   .  
    BOLT Webkit based Browser       I came across this, but haven't had the time to try it myself, but the reviews seem to be reasonable. Its closed source but they provide later versions than the current for download for free.     Hope this can shed some light  
Accessing html generated by Javascript with htmlunit -Java
  I am trying to be able to test a website that uses javascript to render most of the HTML. With the HTMLUNIT browser how would you be able to access the html generated by the javascript? I was looking through their documentation but wasn't sure what the best approach might be.        This is an easy way to get back the html of the page but would you use the domNode or another way to access the html generated by the javascript?   
  Assuming the issue is HTML generated by JavaScript as a result of AJAX calls, have you tried the    'AJAX does not work' section in the HtmlUnit FAQ   ?     There's also a section in the    howtos about how to use HtmlUnit with JavaScript   .     If your question isn't answered here, I think we'll need some more specifics to be able to help.  
  You gotta give some time for the JavaScript to execute.     Check a sample working code below. The    bucket       div   s aren't in the original source.       Output:       HtmlUnit version used:    
Javascript library to reliably delay-load java applets
  I'd like to delay-load a Java Applet in the same way that    SwfObject    loads Flash SWFs-- you supply it a div id and it replaces the div's contents.  This would allow the whole page to load before the Applet starts.     However, I'd also like to use a best-practices Javascript library like    deployJava.js    or    applet-fu   .  The problem with these libraries is that they only use document.writeln-- if you use them after the DOM loads they will clobber the page.     Are there any Applet-loading JavaScript libraries that allow for delay-loading?  
  See    http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1178713/java-equivalent-of-swfobject       In short, you don't need a huge library. If you don't care about detecting if java is installed, you don't need any libraries. Just add a placeholder and replace its contents with    .innerHTML   .  
DWR and other possible tools for build java application level Ajax framework
  I would assume that this question would have been asked in different ways already, but I could not find one so posting it. Sorry if its a repetition     The basic idea which I am trying to explore is to design a common Ajax framework/API for our application. The main requirement is to have a common framework in the product which every module in the application can call whenever it needs to provide Ajax behavior.         We basically have a page based application and not everything would be Ajax for sure. Mostly it will be smaller pieces of work which Ajax will handle.         We have used GWT and it works great. But we have some constraints because of which certain areas in the application need to build standard jsp and html pages only         I know little bit about dwr and it looks very promising (as even answered by some people).         I wanted to know what are the other possible frameworks like dwr which I can evaluate too, before making the decision  
what exactly is the programming related question here?
Yes.. its not related to programming directly but programming choice. I was not sure which tags I should use
  This might help    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Ajax_frameworks#Java       But DWR works great. It is simple and very effective. I suggest you go for DWR.  
Application/Script for checking "unseriousness" possible?
  I have a classifieds website where users may sell/buy just about anything...     My issue which costs the company alot of money, time etc is that ALL classifieds must be reviewed by a physical person (employee) before beeing posted on the website.     So when you create a new classified enty, you get the message like "Your ad will be reviewed against our policy and then postedn withing two hours".     So a person must actually check if there are curses, discrimination, unseriousness etc etc...     My question:     Do you think it is possible to create a php code for checking all these things instead of hiring people to do it? For instance, how have Ebay solved this?     Blacklisting words is easy, and checking for dublicate entries also, but what about discrimination, and "unseriousness"?  
Don't try to parse jokes with a regex.
  No.   A computer cannot understand free text in a reliable way - you need a human eye.   There are tools to filter and identify spam (e.g.    Akismet   ), but not jokes, hate-speech, off-topic posts and such.  
  I don't think you can fully 100% automate it - but you can make the reviewers' job easier.     You could create an app for that, that    assigns a "rating"    to a classified.      The more serious a classified appears, the higher the score. Per "possible infraction" (bad word list, too short message, bad grammar, bad formatting, bad typing) you lower the score.     You could then implement a "too low score gets rejected automatically".     You could offer the reviewers a system to rate the "higher scoring items" first (do take the date-posted into account too, so low scoring posts are sure to be evaluated - just later). This will improve their efficiency.     Show the reviewers the offended rules ("this post probably has bad grammar", highlight the blacklisted words, ...). Maybe allow them to add bad words (and a penalty modifier, eg -0.5).     But look at how professional sites do it: there is a "flag" button under each post - have the community help you out. They flag a post, a moderator goes to check.  
  My suggestion: do away with manually checking the posts. Once you regulate content, you become liable for all the content on the website. Accepting posts without any form of moderation will eliminate a great deal of liability. In order to maintain the quality and prevent undesireable content, though, you can add the ability for other users to "flag" content as inappropriate, which would allow you to manually review only the subset of content that has been flagged, without having to review all content.     Now, to answer your actual question,... you can automate filtering using machine learning techniques. Do not expect this automated filtering to be 100% accurate, however. You will have to experiment with different types of features and different ML algorithms, but I'd aim for something in the 90% range, and expect at least something 80% or more accurate. That said, I wouldn't even bother with that, because unless you have a very low false positive rate, you will annoy people for blocking legitimate posts, and allowing users to flag inappropriate content is typically sufficient. You could also provide a way for users to rate each other's posts. Crowdsourcing is a fairly effective technique for this kind of thing.     Also, I should add one last thing... if you still want to have people manually review posts or if you want to get a large number of posts manually rated in order to have a sufficiently large labeled dataset for training your machine learning algorithm, you might be interested in    Mechanical Turk   , which allows you to leverage a very large number of people really, really cheaply.  
+1 Mechanical Turk
AJAX get data from large HTML page as the large HTML page loads
  Not entirely sure whether this has a name but basically I have a large HTML page that is generated from results in a db.      So viewing the HTML page (which is a report) in a browser directly does not display all contents immediately but displays what it has and additional HTML is added as the results from the DB are retrieved...     Is there a way I can make an AJAX request to this HTML page and as opposed to waiting until the whole page (report) is ready, I can start processing the response as the HTML report is loaded? Or is there another way of doing it?     Atm I make my AJAX response it just sits there for a minute or two until the HTML page is complete...     If context is of any use: The HTML report is generated by a Java servlet and the page making the AJAX call is a JSP page. Unfortunately I can't very easily break the report up because it is generated by BIRT (Eclipse reporting extension).     Thanks in advance.  
Tricky if you can't break the report up in pieces
I think I've got it...I was using jQuery to make the AJAX call. Writing my own onreadystatechange listener and checking for readystates of value 3 seems to give me access to the response object's [incomplete] responseText!! Will post back once I've investigated further.
  Yep all works, if anyone's interested:     
Doesn't work in IE obviously :(
Detect car acceleration in Android app?
  I want to incorporate some Accelerometer code into a Android application im working and want to see if this is possible. Basically what I need is for the code to detect car acceleration motion. I am not wanting to determine speed with the code but just distinguish if the phone is in a car and has accelerated motion (Hence the car is moving for the first time). I have gone through many different accelerometer applications to see if this motion produces a viable profile to go off of and it appears it does. Just looking for something that popups a "Hello World" dialog when it detects your in the car and its moving for the first time down the street. Any help would be appreciated and a simple yes or no its possible would work. I would also be interested in compensating anyone that is capable of doing this as well. I need this done like yesterday so please let me know.     Thank You,     JTW  
Make your title more specific. Is this possible could be anything.
Are you saying that you want to be able to detect that you're moving in a *car*, as opposed to on foot, bike, train, roller skates, etc?
This smells like "I need to hire a genius programmer, are you interested in solving my domain-specific problem on the fly?" ...
Yes, let's get more people focusing on their smartphones while they're driving.
@Jeff ... On skates on a train? :)
@DOK, perhaps the app disables the phone when you're in the car? :)
Following your title and tags, I must admit that 'this' in java is possible.
  Yes. If by moving the car, the device moves :P        http://stuffthathappens.com/blog/2009/03/15/android-accelerometer/       But probably, it would be better to combine it with  GPS.       http://www.devx.com/wireless/Article/43005/1954    
       Basically what I need is for the code   to detect car acceleration motion.       As others have noted, there is no such thing as "car acceleration". There is only acceleration. Acceleration, as a concept in physics, can come from everything from a car to the device being shaken.     So, for example,    here is some code    that detects a device being shaken.     So, the question then becomes: can you come up with an acceleration value that is definitively from a car in motion? I suspect the answer is no, for most cars. For example,    this site    indicates that a 2008 Aston Martin demonstrates an acceleration of 6.5 meters/second^2. The force of gravity is greater (9.8 meters/second^2). My shake code will only register a shake at around 12 meters/second^2 -- less than that, and simple movements will be considered a shake.     As another answer suggests, you are probably better served using GPS.     If, on the other hand, you can supply me with a 2008 Aston Martin for testing, I'd be happy to run some accelerometer experiments... :-)  
Calling Groovy or Java from JavaScript
  I have a cool bit of dojo running where I click a button and it brings a success message on the screen via JavaScript. Is it possible to issue a call to a server-side Groovy script (eg.    foo.groovy   ) from within this JavaScript?     Not only do I want to show the cool success message, but I need to do some work in the background at that point also.  
  The answer was to use dojo's AJAX call system.  
It would be nice, if you would post some example code snippets of your solution, to give others an idea how this can be achieved.
  Here are some relevant links from the Dojo documentation:         Intro to AJAX and Dojo         Dojo.xhrGet() reference   : sends a GET request to the server-side resource (which can be a Groovy script or anything else that resides on the server). The live examples on this page are currently broken, but I'm told this is being resolved.       Dojo.xhrPost() reference   : sends a POST request. There are variants for PUT and DELETE too.     
What's the reason behind to include a engine in Java to run JavaScript?
  To let JavaScript able to run in server-side?      If it's justified, what's the advantage? and any good application for such use?  
  There are lots of possible reasons. Here's a    blog post by Steve Yegge    (of Google) explaining why he was looking into using    Mozilla Rhino    (which later because    javax.script   ).     According to the Rhino site:          It is typically embedded into Java   applications to provide scripting to   end users.       So I guess that's one good reason. Other things I've read include doing it because you have some complex language that you want to run on either the browser or the server, and you don't want to write it twice (as    here   ).     Generally speaking, that's a lot of complexity, and generally speaking, complexity is bad.  
  I haven't seen any applications in the wild, but as a proof of concept it's pretty nice. Traditionally Java to the layperson has meant a fused combo of the language and the VM, with few other languages implemented for the platform outside academia. But I think now people are starting to innovate with languages targetted at the JVM, possibly as a result of the features introduced by C#.  
Free Java HTML and JS parser
  Do you know a parser which could operate on AJAX and has option to override method of connecting (I would like to use my own method to connect to pages).   
  Maybe you should give    Mozilla Rhino    a try.  
  HtmlUnit       http://htmlunit.sourceforge.net/       but I don't know if you can override connect method  
  LoboBrowser:    http://lobobrowser.org/java-browser.jsp   with this library you can run HTML and JS over Java    
parsing non-strict json, one in which keys are not enclosed in quotes, with Java
  I am trying to parse a string which in JSON format only that keys are not enclosed in quotes.  I can very well parse this string in Javascript, but can not find a Java API which will help me parse this.  All the APIs I tried assumes strict JSON format.       Can anyone suggest a library which has an option to parse this, or a whole new approach to the problem (say like use regex instead) ?  
http://www.json.org/js.html says "JSON is a subset of the object literal notation of JavaScript". So I guess my question now becomes, is there a Java parser for object literal notation of Javascript.
  If the keys aren't enclosed in quotes then it's not JSON.     You should either hack this yourself or find someone who did it already.     Also, there's no such thing as    non-strict json   . There's only 1 version of JSON and it's strict.  
I am now trying to hack on org.json code to remove this restriction.  Just wanted to see if anyone has a nicer way around this.
Also, wonder why javascript does not complain about keys not enclosed in quotes.
Because JSON is not JavaScript object notation, even though that's what it stands for.
@Nishan: you should also wonder why you can have functions as values in JavaScript... Anyway you could pass your object to a browser and use JSON.stringify on json.org to make the keys have quotes again. You still need a JS interpreter though (the browser).
  Personally, you could use a state pattern and add your quotes.  Unless I am wrong, the state pattern would read in character by character and set flags to indicate whether we are within a double quote condition and whether our double quotes are "quoted" with a backslash.  Using this, and that variable names don't start with a number, you could add the quotes while streaming it, then send it on it's way.  
This is pretty much what json.org's implementation does. I was able to solve this by extending org.json.JSONTokener class.
  Here's a solution in coffeescript using the underscore library.  If you're not using that you can replace _.foldl with a for loop.       And the same in javascript:    
how to detect client timezone?
  any ideas how to get client/request timezone in jsp?  
  Unfortunately this information is not passed in HTTP headers.     Usually you need cooperating JavaScript to fetch it for you.   Web is full of examples, here is one    http://www.coderanch.com/t/486127/JSP/java/Query-timezone    
  you cannot get timezone, but you can get current time from client side.i.e. through javascript and than post back. On server side, you can convert that time to GMT/UTC. The UTC shows the TimeZone.  
  If you are using Spring mvc then you can get it very easily       now you will get Timezone of user request. I hope this will help you.   
Implementing OFX specification with javascript
  I am working on a personal project and need to retrieve financial data.  After looking around how this is normally done it seems you can pay lots of money and license a service like Yodlee to get this data for you or you can implement a OFX client like wesabe has to communicate with financial institutions.  Seeing as I don't have lots of money and wouldn't mind the challenge I decided to try to implement the ofx spec (unless one of you can suggest a cheap/free alternative!).       I looked around for some ofx libraries other people have already written for use but didn't find anything that looked too great.  I was wondering if anyone knew if it would be a bad idea to attempt this in Javascript. If there is some awful reason why I shouldn't do this please bring it up.  If there is I'll just do it in Java but I think it would be nice to have it completely in javascript so it can run completely on a client and not through my servers.     Anyways I was hoping for some insight from SO, thanks.  
  I don't know about JavaScript, but    OFX4J    provides an implementation of    OFX    for Java. This    related question    may offer additional insight.  
Why is Rhino unhappy with this javascript?
  I have been successfully using my code with the javascript library in the    ANTLR javascript target    in a few browsers, but now I want to use Rhino on the server and I am having some trouble.  I have some simple java code that references the Rhino 1.7R2 release's js-14.jar file.       This fails with an    EcmaError    whose message is:       The javascript line that it's referring to is:       This    org.antlr.namespace    was declared as a function earlier in the file, so I am not sure what to think of this.  I also don't see that "namespace" is a reserved word in javascript or in Rhino in particular.     Here's the declaration of    org.antlr.namespace    at line 56:       The    ANTLR javascript target page    mentions that Rhino is a tested platform, so I am thinking that I might just be misusing Rhino.  Does anyone have any tips?  
       TypeError: Cannot call property   namespace in object [JavaPackage   org.antlr].       It takes your org.antlr as a java package and tries to make a call to the object namespace. So defining the function like this does not work.     Defining each part of the functions namespace by itself worked for me:       Sorry that I can't give a more detailed answer, I don't know mutch about javascript^^. I guess that since org and org.antlr are undefined you can't assign to them.  
Thanks... Your pre-edited answer gave me the hint.  The first part of the antlr script file does `if (typeof org == "undefined" || !org) { var org = {}; }`.  Apparently org wasn't really undefined, so it didn't get created as an empty javascript object.  Removing the `if` around the initialization seems to work.
Showing a progress bar when downloading a file from the server
  I need to show a progress bar to the user who requests a file to download. I am using J2EE application to generate the file. User will submit the form data to get the file. The server takes all the submitted data manipulates, generates and sends a PDF file back to Client.      So I want to show a progress bar to the user till the file comes to the Client side.  Is there any way to do this ?   
I would LOVE to know how to do this
How long does it usually take to generate the file?
@cherouvim: The time is not a static one here. It varies between file to file. It takes a minimum time of 1 sec to a maximum of 20-30 minutes.
  If I understand you well, you want to show a progress bar until your server is ready to send a file, not to show the progress of the file beeing downloaded.     If that is true, you're dealing with a tough excercise. A reliable progressbar needs to know (pretty exact) what you're doing and how long it will take. In your case, there are lots of unreliable factors (one of them, maybe the biggest, is the web itself).     So most developers use some kind of an "endless" animation to display "work in progress".       update       Based on your comment, the easiest way to display a "work in progress" animation would look like       In the case of a single request. You may also setup a global ajax event handler for both (   .ajaxStart()    and    .ajaxStop()   ) to setup the show/hide functionallity.     References:    .ajax()   ,    .ajaxStart()   ,    .ajaxStop()    
Either of the cases is valid. It will be good to know the progress of the file being downloaded. Or I am still fine with showing an work in progress bar until the server is ready to send the file.
Thanks for your response.
+1 for the simplicity of "infinite wait"
How to set the file download in ajax success method. I am able to get the file into the client side but don't know how to force the browser to download.
    progress bar for server side file generation:       We assume that the server needs many seconds to generate the file. This event is triggered by the original request, a blocking operation. When this finishes the file will have been generated and it'll be dispatched back to the client.     At the same time you want, via other requests (ajax), to be calling the server and getting a percentage back for the file which is currently being generated for the particular user.     The glue parts here are:       when the original request is generating the file it needs to store the progress in frequent intervals (i.e every 10%). Storing this data in the http session will work OK.     the other requests (ajax) simply need to be able to pull this information out of the http session     synchronizing (serializing access) on the http session, something that some web apps commonly do, is out of the question, since the other requests (ajax) would simply block until the original request finished     on the client side it's all html+javascript to provide the interaction you need (animated progress bar). Even if the intervals are very rough (jumping from 10% to 20% to 30%) you can animate the bar with jQuery. I've done it once in the past and it looks great.         progress bar for file download:       it's best to leave this to the browser's native dialog.  
May I know how you get the file download information from the html/java-script ? Can you share some more information on the last point what u said (on the client side it's all ....)?
On the server side you'll need a URL (e.g a Java servlet) providing this information (simply printing the percentage from the http session). Whether this will be plain text (e.g "20%") or JSON or XML depends on you and how you'll implement the client side.  On the client side you'll do asynchronous requests on the URL via jQuery in order to get this information and modify the DOM accordingly. The requests will need to be triggered every X seconds (let's say 3 seconds) via the javascript function setTimeout(..)
For that kind of approach, I'd really suggest some kind of COMET way, not native ajax requests.
Thanks for your valid inputs.
  In Java you just wrap a javax.swing.ProgressMonitorInputStream around the input stream, but be aware that unless the server is sending in chunked streaming mode the display won't really mean anything, as the entire response will have been read into memory before the first byte is delivered to Java.  
parse Java JSONArray with jquery.parseJSON()
  at the moment I'm parsing the string with eval()-method and it works fine, but want to parse it with the native JSON methods of a browser. Is there good way to parse the string with jquery.parseJSON() or with any other jQuery method to an array of javascript objects? The string looks like        build with net.sf.json.JSONArray of Java.     jquery.parseJSON() can just parse strings like {"Key":"Value","Key":"Value",....} I guess?     thx for your help!  
as long as it's _valid_ json, it'll parse it..
I tried jsonlint.com and there it's valid. I guess there is a problem to parse a nested array?
  You have a typo. It is jQuery, not jquery. Capitalization is important.       or       This is supposed to parse it into a json object.  
sorry, my fault :) I wrote jQuery.parseJSON() in my code, but it throws an exception. I guess jQuery.parseJSON() can not parse an string like [{"Key":"Value","Key":"Value"},{"Key":"Value","Key":"Value"},{....}]
@joo i have used jQuery.parseJSON(result)  &  result is `code` {"resort0":"Abaco Beach Resort at Boat Harbour","resort1":"Alexandra Resort","room0":"1 Bedroom Luxury Oceanfront Suite","room1":"2 Bedroom Deluxe Ocean View Suite","room2":"Deluxe Garden View Studio","room3":"Deluxe Ocean View Studio","room4":"Deluxe Oceanfront","room5":"Oceanfront","room6":"Superior Oceanfront"} `code`  and works fine
calling a java servlet from javascript
  I am trying to create a web application using the MVC design pattern. For the GUI part I would like to use JavaScript. And for the controller Java Servlets.     Now I have never really worked with JavaScript, so I'm having a hard time figuring out how to call a Java Servlet from JavaScript and how to get the response from the Servlet.      Can anybody help me out?  
  Sorry, I read jsp not javascript.  You need to do something like (note that this is a relative url and may be different depending on the url of the document this javascript is in):       Where your servlet-mapping in web.xml looks something like this:    
That isn't "from JavaScript"
Not it is from JavaScript, but that level of trivial stuff is far closer to being the controller than a view.
  I really recommend you use    jquery    for the javascript calls and some implementation of JSR311 like    jersey    for the service layer, which would delegate to your controllers.      This will help you with all the underlying logic of handling the HTTP calls and your data serialization, which is a big help.  
  So you want to fire    Ajax    calls to the servlet? For that you need the      XMLHttpRequest      object in JavaScript. Here's a Firefox compatible example:       This is however very verbose and not really crossbrowser compatible. For the best crossbrowser compatible way of firing ajaxical requests and traversing the HTML DOM tree, I recommend to grab    jQuery   . Here's a rewrite of the above in jQuery:       Either way, the Servlet on the server should be mapped on an    url-pattern    of    /myservlet    (you can change this to your taste) and have at least      doGet()      implemented and write the data to the response as follows:       This should show    Hello World!    in the JavaScript alert.     You can of course also use      doPost()     , but then you should use    'POST'    in    xhr.open()    or use      $.post()      instead of      $.get()      in jQuery.     Then, to show the data in the HTML page, you need to manipulate the    HTML DOM   . For example, you have a        in the HTML where you'd like to display the response data, then you can do so instead of    alert(data)    of the 1st example:       In the jQuery example you could do this in a more concise and nice way:       To go some steps further, you'd like to have an easy accessible data format to transfer more complex data. Common formats are XML and JSON. The last one is most preferred since it's more concise and can be used in both Java and JavaScript on a very easy manner. In Java, you can use    Google Gson    to convert fullworthy Java objects to JSON and vice versa.        In JavaScript you can use jQuery's      $.getJSON()      to get it "instantly". Let's display it in a      table     .         See also   :         Java/JSP/JSF and JavaScript         JavaScript tutorial         JSON tutorial         jQuery tutorials      
  The code here will use AJAX to print text to an HTML5 document dynamically (Ajax code is similar to book Internet     WWW (Deitel)):     Javascript code:       Servlet java code:       HTML document    
Robust Javascript parser in Java
  I am looking for a    robust    Javascript parser written in Java - by which I mean a Javascript parser that is able to handle most real world Javascript.     I am only interested in    parsing    Javascript,    not    in executing it.     I have found Rhino:   http://groups.google.com/group/mozilla.dev.tech.js-engine.rhino/browse_thread/thread/1eff23a8ee57b991       Am I missing anything? Is this the best solution?     Thank you! Misha  
Hi @Misha you probably should start thinking about "accepting" answers to the questions you have asked. Not all your questions have answers, but many of them do.
  That's probably the best Java one.  As you probably know, it's developed by Mozilla (though it's not used by their browsers), and it's also    bundled    by Sun.  
In other words, it's built-in in Java's standard library, see the package `javax.script`.
Thank you. Unfortunately JDK 6 is out for me, as Mac support for this platform seems to be ... not quite there :(
@Misha, you don't have to use JDK 6.  The [download](ftp://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/js/rhino1_7R2.zip) includes js-14.jar, which supports as early as 1.4.
Thank you. I meant I can't use javax.script as that is part of JDK 6. Thank you!
Why not put all braces inline in C++, C#, Java, javascript, etc.?
  Of all the conventions out there for positioning braces in C++, C#, Java, etc., I don't think I've ever seen anyone try to propose something like this:         But why not?    I'm sure it would take some getting used to, but I personally don't have any difficulty following what's going on here. I believe indentation is the dominant factor in being able to see how code is organized into blocks and sub-blocks. Braces are just visual noise to me. They are these ugly things that take up lines where I don't want them. Maybe I just feel that way because I was weened on basic (and later VB), but I just don't like braces taking up lines. If I want a gap between blocks, I can always add an empty line, but I don't like being forced to have gaps simply because the convention says the closing brace needs to be on its own line.     I made this a community wiki because I realize this is not a question with a defined answer. I'm just curious what people think. I know that no one does this currently (at least, not that I've seen), and I know that the auto-formatter in my IDE doesn't support it, but are there are any other solid reasons not to format code this way, assuming you are working with a modern IDE that color codes and auto-indents? Are there scenarios where it will become a readability nightmare? Better yet, are you aware of any research on this?       Update       Thanks to jim's point, I'm willing to concede that the closing bracket for a method block should be left-aligned. It clearly denotes that the method is complete, and eliminates the double brace (   } }   ) at the end. Also, I always put gaps between methods, so the extra line caused by the brace doesn't bother me as much.     So, here's the updated code snippet:    
You would probably love Python
So your background is VB and you want C# to be more like the language you're comfortable with? I think a lot of people have that experience the first time they play with a new language, "hey, why doesn't it act just like [favorite language]". Believe me, if you write C# for a month or so, you too will be converted to the cult of the curly brace ;)
@Juliet, actually, I've been programming in C# for years now. I'm used to the curly braces...just don't like 'em all that much visually. I do prefer typing them to `End Whatever` though.
OMG, it's even uglier than Java ;)
I say just do away with braces and go the python way
The problem with all those kind of style guide lines: They annoy developers and don't make the source code more understandable or function any better...
Two *Brace Wars* posts in one day. Yippie. S &A  every time it comes up, guys.
I think you conceded your entire argument with that update. If it makes the method clearer, surely it does the same for any other block?
Trying to be the father of the Third Tower in the holy brace war?
I agree with dotjoe.  Imagine if you had nested ifs.  Besides, I don't think treating statement blocks different in methods vs conditionals is a good idea.
  The convention you propose is common in languages like Lisp.  
  This is just a matter of taste. The only thing is important - to use the same style across whole solution.  
  Apart from the closing brace on the method, this looks fine to me as well.     I would prefer the method to have a definite visual end-point. The closing brace does just that.  
Jim, that's a good point. I always put gaps between methods anyway, so that wouldn't really bother me.
Personally, I would apply that same argument to all blocks.
  Personally that causes me to hesitate and start counting braces to see if they are all there and removes "at a glance" visual clues on the structure.  
Reminds me of Lisp with all the braces next to each other.
  I suppose the real reason this is not common is that without the closing braces at the start of a line, it would be really hard to tell what "indent level" you were on at any particular line.  
  If you do as you're suggesting, you might as well just do Python-style blocks (indentation-defined), since the braces aren't really doing anything except adding noise.  
  For me personally it's important that each operation, whenever possible, takes a separate line. Not if    (i     0) {i = 1}    or    int i = 0; double x = 1;   , for example. That's why I don't like    }}}    noise at the end:    if-else    construction (all parts of it) should be visually separate from assignments and other stuff.     Not to mention, I like to copy-paste full lines of code and 'i = 0;}}}' would be a problem in this case :)     But that's just my personal preference and I think your convention is generally valid.  
  I think it's very interesting that the braces are visual noise to you, particularly because you come from a VB background.  To me, the noise in VB is much higher.  I'd much rather see braces than End Sub, End Function, End If, Next, etc.     I do see your point however.  I've felt it's better to move to another language that's more Lisp like if the C style or Basic style is too noisy, such as Python, Ruby, etc.  Though you might not like Clojure's very extensive use of parenthesis. :)  
  A reason not to is that you can't always move to the end of a line, press enter, and start typing a new line of code.  You have to park the cursor to the left of the proper brace first.  
Not something I've thought of before, but a good point. I can readily see a programmer not accostomed to this convention carelessly doing what you describe, or inserting a blank line under the last line of a block in some other way, and then getting seemingly-mysterious bugs.
  I think this makes it harder to grab a "chunk" of code.  For instance if you have multiple levels of if statements and decide to refactor some of it into a function it's a little harder to grab just the right number of end brackets.  Where as having the end brackets on separate lines makes that task easier.  Just a small issue really, but as far as readability it's true that the indentation is really what's important.  
  While it is indeed possible to figure out the structure of the code from your example, the main issue is not the    possibility    to make out the structure of the code, but rather the    immediate readability    of the code. For the readability of the code vertical blank spacing is as important than horizontal one.     In your example, the condition in the    if    is "glued" to the code inside the true branch. The header of the function (parameter list) is "glued" to the implementation as well. This is poor readability already. It is very difficult to extract the beginning and the end of the logically continuous section of the code in your original example. And if the condition becomes multi-line, the code will get even harder to read than it is already.     In order to make the code readable, the elements of different nature have to be separated by a blank line       Additionally, the extra blank line provides a natural space for writing a comment (if one is necessary).  
python code is pretty readable even though the lines in "if" constructs, etc.,  are usually adjacent.
Sorry, but personally I hate this style.  I think that by placing the opening brace on a new line totally detaches the code block from the header (method header, or if statement or whatever) and I feel that this makes it more difficult to read.  Especially if there are no comments placed where you have indicated then it just seems like there is a lot of white space. At my work we have had many dicussions about code style and everyone has their own preferences, and this is just mine, so no offence intended. I guess the key is just to be consistent.
+1 I think this formatting style ties in well with small methods, classes (Single responsibility Principle) - however if the methods\classes are not small then it looses it's effectiveness
@DaveJohnston, have you ever seen a "detached" block of code in curly brackets? It's as rare as meet a "body" tag without "head" in HTML. New-bracket-new-line style is super readable and clearly separate header from block that follows it. Because head and body are all different things ideologically. I personally love this style and hate "egyptian" brackets (on the same line) with big passion.
@shoumikhin and I hate the style you are talking about with a big passion. Doesn't make either style correct. As I said in my comment, consistency is the key.
  I find it considerably more readable and clearlier arranged when the method signature is    not    followed by an opening bracket.     It's still only a matter of taste whether to write the opening bracket in a seperate line or not - anyway, I have never seen anyone    not    setting the closing bracket in a seperate one.  
  Braces exist purely as a lexical element to aid the compiler.  In most cases as above they are used to create a statement block that is uniform to all statement blocks.  Thus their main purpose is to provide you with as much control over how your blocks are formatted as possible.  Given this I would recommend using them however you like and that the form you present is fairly easy to read.      However would note that while for simple statements I really like how all the closing braces end on the same line. However, In the example below consider how this looks with a large number of nested statements.       As opposed the standard method where closing braces just line up vertically. As you can see below you can just see where each block ends.  Where as with your method you end up counting closing braces.       A main thing to consider when doing changes to the common formatting of things is that other developers will see your code and having a common format for the code is very helpful.  
Of course, if you only have one statement, you can leave out the braces altogether in Java. And I'm pretty sure that 1=1 isn't legal at all.
Furthermore, if later you need to add a new line of code after one of the inner blocks, it is simple to do so correctly in the latter style while doing so in the former style requires counting braces.
@Vuntic: Fixed the 1=1.
  I have to say that this is an issue that I encountered many times in the various projects I worked on. We have developers from various backgrounds - C, C++, Java, C#, Cobol and even developers that started their way writing Shell scripts.     Some take the conventions they were taught at their university. Some take the conventions of their team and some define their own.     When I first started I was used to the    Egyptian brackets    but since I joined a team working on C# - we immediately adopted the Microsoft convention:       After migrating myself to Java, I am still using the old ways since I find it the most readable. To me - any other format breaks the indentation and is not very readable.  In my current project - there is almost a unanimous agreement that this is the best practice.     The way I see it (and I'm sure people will correct me if I'm wrong): People who write code like you suggested - have no problem reading code the way I write it. But people who write code the way I write it - have difficulty reading code the way you write it. --> This is my feeling, I'll be happy to get comments about it.  
RonK, you may be right, but it also might just be that the way I wrote it is completely unfamiliar (even to me :)).
  After this line this line       in your example it is not obvious that the next line should be out-dented twice to lign up correctly.  Looks like a recipe for an unmaintainable and confusing mess.       Jonathan Park's answer includes an example where the out-dent would need to be 6 levels, and you can only tell that by counting the }'s.  It is extraordinarily error prone without direct IDE support; and who's going to write formatter to cater to a very minority taste?  You should not have to think about indenting, it should be intuitive.  
  For some reason, I just can't read that code. Which is very strange, as I program in python very often. So the idea of indentation deciding my if/else blocks is something that I'm familiar with (and I like it better than using braces personally), but I'm suddenly uncomfortable with it when you add braces.     I guess it's because with Python, what I see is what happens. While with C++, C#, and Java, the indentation can lie because the compiler uses the braces. So I just don't trust the indentation when I'm coding in those languages and I can't properly read the braces because they don't match the indentation level.     On the other hand, I'm fine with doing trailing end-paren's in Lisp variants... now I'm just confused.     So the only real answer I can give is because convention says to do it another way. When you enter another programming language, you enter another culture and you change your coding style. In Lisp, what you did up there is fine. In Python, there's only one way to end blocks. In C and similar languages, you use curly braces and spaces to specify indentation.  
Every programmed in Lisp without a parenthesis-aware editor?  I have.  It was very, very painful.  On the other hand, I've written large amounts of C and C++ code without using automatic brace matching much, because it isn't as necessary.
I actually have. For larger functions, even with parenthesis-aware editors, it becomes impossible to read it. The syntax is really nice for writing code, but it's really hard for reading code.
  One example where this is confusing:     Case 1:       Case 2:       Both snippets look very similar although they do different things. It is easy not to see that in case 2 the second line is incorrectly indented. The compiler will not tell you this and you are required to run a code formatter to get this obvious.     By putting the braces on separate lines it is much easier to spot what is going on here and to actually see that there is a formatting error:     Case 2 with braces on separate lines:       Beside that point: Stick to the way of indenting that is the most common in your programming language as you will usually write code that needs to be understood by others.   
1. I'm confused. Case 2 doesn't have any braces at all, and in Case 1, the braces are correct for the indenting you've shown. If you auto-format this code, the second `var` in case 2 will be aligned with the `if`. 2. Regarding your last paragraph, I agree that we should follow standards/conventions, but that doesn't mean that standards/conventions shouldn't be allowed to evolve if newer and better ways of doing things are discovered (Hungarian notation, anyone?). (And I'm not saying the inline-brace idea is a better way of doing things...it's just a curiosity for now.)
@DanM: Regarding 1: Exactly that was my point. The code snippets both look similar but do different things. Relying on an IDE feature such as code-formatting is not a good idea because it always requires that you use an IDE and that the current compilation unit is syntactically correct which is not guaranteed to be the case then the auto-formatting command is applied. Regarding 2: I tried to make clear with my sample why I think the proposed formatting is actually not a good idea.
1. Okay, I'm with you that the two segments look similar but do different things, but clearly, Case 2 is a formatting *error*. And this error can cause nearly as much confusion whether you normally place braces on separate lines or not. As I said in my original question, indenting is a *much* more powerful visual cue than braces. 2. After reading all the responses, you are probably right that there are good reasons to put closing braces on a separate line, but I still believe conventions can and should change over time if better ideas come around.
@DanM: See my updated example to clarify my point.
  Since the compiler won't error in this scenario (like python), you have the potential for intent and syntax to become out of sync.  This makes the code hard to read and maintain, and error prone.     It's like naming a function that adds something a().  You can do it for shorthand, but it'll cause more problems later than it solves now.  
  See Sutter and Alexandrescu's "Rule 0: Don't sweat the small stuff", which applies to a variety of languages, despite its inclusion in their book "C++ Coding Standards." Brace placement is one of the examples.     Rule 0 appeared as an excerpt in Dr. Dobbs:    http://www.drdobbs.com/184401863      
Sutter and Alexandrescu don't know me at all. I *live* to sweat the small stuff :)
  My preference is "the opposite" - takes up more lines, but I think this way is more readable (not "hiding" the start-bracket way out on the right (maybe even wrapped))     And no    useless    semicolons!    
Useless semicolons? How in the hell would you make a compressed javascript?
I wouldn't : ) - I rely on cashing instead...
This method is the most logical; the braces are lined up with the thing they surround.  Unfortunately, I haven't found any workplace that uses this method.  Most of them keep the braces one level left of this, which I've gotten used to.  (As for having opening braces at the end of the line, I haven't worked in a single C# shop that does that.  I wouldn't want to work in such a place; if braces have meaning, then it's foolish to put them in a place where they're easily missed.)
  I recommend programming with a team. If you're already doing so, try it longer. It took me years to get over petty differences in programming styles, but it's a fact of life with C/C++. Programming in a team environment is as much about communicating with other people as it is about communicating with the machine, and even people speaking the same language have different dialects, different kinds of expressions they prefer over others, etc. Learn them and get used to dealing with them even if you don't like them as much: you're not supposed to - no one ever formats code exactly the same way unless the language requires it (ex: Python).     Apologies for getting preachy but this kind of formatting style is really a trivial thing. If you like it, you can feel free to use it but you should get used to other, more common styles if you plan to read other people's code. Don't go reformatting other people's code if you work in a team unless you want to make people really upset, even if you are sure your style is superior.      BTW, I had a co-worker who used this style. It is basically like a combination of Pico style and K   R style. I didn't mind that so much but what drove me crazy was that she used 2-space indentations. Personally I wish everyone just used Allman style like me; everything lines up that way which is why I like it, but to each his own.  
  As a Lisp programmer by choice who had to do Java programming for work once, I have tried this.  You can write programs this way, and it does save a lot of lines.  Unfortunately, there were 2 things working against me:         Java's syntax is much more complex.  In Lisp, a line always ends with    )))    or so -- the only thing left to do is make sure you have the right    number    of close-parens (which editors are great at).  In Java and C#, lines often end with some mess like    )};}));   , so you can't just hit    )    until the opening paren highlights.  In Lisp I don't really think about the parse tree, because it's trivial, while in Java/C# I actually have to think about the structure of the entire block just to finish it.  I suppose the editor could help here, but:         Editors don't support it.  (Yes, this is largely just a consequence of #1.)  In Emacs, anyway, it's really easy to do operations on sexps, and every editor with any amount of Lisp support can do such things, because it's generally really easy to implement.  You can move, select, compile, etc., sexps, and there's pretty much one way to indent and the editors are great at that, too.  OTOH, selecting an expression in Java/C# is a lot harder -- I'm not sure what that would even mean, in a lot of cases.         I think it's great to try things like this, but it's also great to recognize when they don't work so you can drop them.  For better or worse, a coding standard has to take into account language syntax, and Java was designed (intentionally or not) for C-like indentation/bracing.     (P.S., and no, I used Python for a while, and it drives me crazy.  Go find the nearest Python code and tell me what "select this sexp" means.  Its syntax is even more editor-hostile than Java/C#'s.  They're very complex but at least you    could    in theory write something to move strangely-indented blocks around.  In Python most of the time I have to resort to moving by word/char/line.)  
  In    a recent post by Erik Dietrich   , some very compelling reasons are presented, boiling down to          Opening curly braces in it's own line is    idiomatic    in C# (and that's a good enough reason).           "Now you may think that, because of this simple example that touches off a bike-shedding holy war about where to put curly braces that I m advocating for rigid conformance to coding standards or something. That s not my point at all. My point more goes along the lines of  When in Rome, speak like the Romans do.  Don t walk in and say,  hey Buddy, give me an EX-PRESS-O!  Don t be bad at speaking the way the community does and proud of it."         "So, if you re doing this, the only upside is that you don t have to change your way of doing things in spite of the fact that you re using a completely different programming language. But the downside is that you needlessly confuse people. I suspect this and many other instances are a weird, passive-aggressive form of signaling. People who do this might be saying,  I m a C++ hacker at heart and you you can take my pointers, but you ll never take MY CONVENTIONS!!!  And maybe the dyed-in-the-wool Java guys write C# with curly brackets on the same line and vice-versa with C# guys in Java. It s the geekiest form of passive (aggressive) resistance ever."         "[M]y advice is to knock it off. Embrace any language you find yourself in and pride yourself how quickly you can become idiomatic and rid yourself of your  accents  from other languages. By really seeking out the conversion, you don t just appear more versed more quickly, I d argue that you become more versed more quickly."         "If you re new to a language and, instead of [trying to learn its idioms] you say,  these guys are stupid; I m not doing that,  you re balling up an opportunity to learn about language features and differences and throwing it in the trash. It ll mean getting further out of your comfort zone faster, but in the end, you ll be a lot better at your craft."      
+1. I don't disagree with any of your points. I never really attempted to code like this, it was just a thought exercise. The question I should have asked was what would have been the ramifications in terms of code readability if this had been the convention from the beginning. In real life, I do in fact vary my brace alignment convention based on the language (left-aligned for C#, same-line for JavaScript, etc.).
  Most C-like language coding standards agree on left-aligned curly braces, but it's not because of some kind of tradition. There are practical reasons for that. It was not so for a long time. For example, in C++ there was a standard to place opening brace on previous line. But the standards evolved. One of the motivations - usage of VCS systems and merge tools, that need to work with source code as text files, not with language syntax trees. Imagine that you place the existing block inside another block. Now your VCS history tool shows you a change in the following line:       With a left aligned curly braces you get the clearest results with diff tools.      But not all C-like languages follow the standard. Javascript is the unfortunate exception. The reason is - evil optional semicolon in Javascript.     Consider the following javascript code:       The object creation expression {...} and the return statement are not belong to each other here, because of the optional semicolon at the end of return statement, which is not used, but could be. That is why in javascript opening curly brace is left on the end of line:    
  I personally prefer to keep the    opening    brace on the same line, but the    closing    brace on its own.  The only exception is the first brace of a function, as it's nice to have the function signature out there on its own.  Thus:       and, from another answer:       Maybe it's because I come from the days when 25 lines per monitor was the norm, but I still like how you can see more lines of code without vertically scrolling, and yet still have the white space that the closing brace provides to help break things up.  
Get status of servlet request before the response is returned
  Good evening,     I am in the process of writing a Java Servlet (Struts 2, Tomcat, JSP etc) which is capable of doing some fairly complex simulations. These can take up to 2 minutes to complete on the and will return a graph of the results. It is trivial to calculate the percentage of the simulation completed because the process works by repeating the same calculations 1000s of times.     I would be interested to know if anyone has ever tried to use client side technology to provide any estimate of the percentage complete. I.e query the servlet processing to get the number of cycles completed at various point throughout the simulation. This could then be displayed as a bar in the client browser.     Any thoughts, advice, resources would be much appreciated.     Thanks,     Alex  
  AJAX is the way to go here.    
  In your database, have a table to maintain a list of simulations along with their server-calculated progress.     In your web-application, use AJAX to query the server every few seconds (1-20 depending on load is what I'd go with) and update a graphical progress bar. Most javascript libraries have simple timer-based AJAX functions to do exactly this sort of thing.     There's a few details to figure out, such as whether or not completed simulations remain in the DB (could be useful logging info), but overall, this should be fairly simple.  
Thank you for your response. There is no database backing this application (yet!). The calculation is done entirely in memory. For now I intend to return an XY plot to show the results. Eventually I will provide some way for a user to download the result data.
  You could encapsulate your response in a mime/multipart message and sends your updates until you have a full response done.     Bugzilla uses this in their search to show "Searching ..."-screen until the searchresult is done.  
+1 this has the benefit of almost real-time progress updates (considering a decent connection), however, the down-side is if the site has high traffic, each request will sit on the resources for 2 minutes and scalability could be an issue.
Another downside is, that this does now work with AJAX since ajax is only notified when the request is completed.
  If you want to use plain Struts2, you should take a look at the      ExecuteAndWait Interceptor     .     It works by the old    refresh-with-timeout    method. Sure, it has lower coolness factor than some AJAX thing, but it's simple and works (I've used it).      Struts2 takes care (by using this interceptor) of executing the action method (which would typically take a long time) in a separate thread, and it returns a special result    wait    until the work is completed. You just have to code a jsp that shows some "waiting..." message for this result, and make it refresh to the same action, repeatedly, with (say) two or three seconds of timeout. The jsp has access to the action properties, of course, hence you can code some    getProgress()    method to show a progress message or bar.  
Tool used to retrieve code metrics in xUnit Test Patterns?
  I'm reading    xUnit Test Patterns    by Gerard Meszaros.       On one of the pages he refers to some software metrics:          While the need to wrap lines to keep   them at 65 characters makes this code   look even longer than it really is, it   is still unnecessarily long. It   contains 25 executable statements   including initialized declarations, 6   lines of control statements, 4 in-line comments, and 2 lines to declare the test method giving a total of 37 lines of unwrapped source code.       Short of counting the statements to find these metrics, does anybody have any idea if he used a particular tool to calculate the metrics?     (If you have any suggestions for tools that will count similar metrics, I'm looking for one that works on Java, Javascript and C++)     Thanks!  
I really don't think that he counted all that by hand, that'd be unprogrammerly.
  Sorry to disappoint you but I did count by hand (well, by eye). It's only 25 lines of code! I just went through and counted semi-colons and subtracted lines that weren't acutally executed (like uninitialized variable declarations.)     The point is not exactly how many lines of code there are but rather how much fewer lines of code you need to write (once) and read/understand/modify (many times).     Gerard  
Oh okay, I knew that the number of lines of code weren't important; but I didn't know if the number of different types of statements: executable statements, control statements mattered or not. Perhaps I'm thinking too hard on this. Welcome to Stack Overflow by the way; we're glad to have you here!
Do those kind of code-metrics matter?  I've seen a couple of projects where they count things such as this (instead of lines of code).
(that's what gave me the idea to look for a tool like that in the first place)
drop down list in a text box
  i want to show the details of a student who entered into the library in a text box like drop down when the mouse is placed over it  
search for autocomlpete.
  Use some tooltip library, like Mootools.Tips.  
+1 for not pimping jQuery ... and having an appropriate solution
How to force delete cookies even if one window is still open?
  Apparently in IE8, there is this option 'Preserve Favorites website data', even if I uncheck it the browser will still keep the cookies until the last window is closed.     Problem scenario. say I logged in to somesite.com, then without logging out, I closed the window, but there was still another IE8 window open. In this case IE8 will keep the cookies of this site. So If I opened the site again (same window or another) the site won't ask for login info.     The client wants the web application to be logged off as soon as the user closes the browser. Can I force delete the cookies IE8 is saving? or maybe I can stop the user from closing the window until I simulate a click on logout button?  
  Can you set a cookie with a negative expiration date in the onunload event of the browser?  
  You can control existence of window through sending frefuent ajax requests. When client loads new page you should verify time of last checkup request.   
  Thanks all, I have tried many methods, including yours and didn't get it to work.     My solution was the following: When the user clicks the X button (browser close), a javascript    onunload    function will be called. This function simulates the clicking on    logout    button. The function pauses the browser until the logoff is executed.     Code:       One side effect, is that this function will be actually called each time the user navigates out of the current page, not only on window close.   Solution, when navigating from page to page, a flag namely    closingWindow    is set to    false   . But when the user click the X button, the flag won't be set to false.     The new function to solve the side effect.    
Javascript debugging plugin for eclipse
  I'm new to Java and I'm doing a project with Ext JS and Java. I'm using Eclipse Java EE IDE for Web Developers (Build id: 20100218-1602). Can anyone suggest any Javascript debugging plugin for this build? Links appreciated  
  I suggest you use    FireBug    for Firefox. I'd say it's the best JavaScript debugger and overall web development tool out there today. You just install it and hit F12 and you're good to go.  
  Also IE developer tools are pretty good. In IE8 just hit F12 also.      Since javascript is the browser technology you should debug it in browser to see the real-world behavior.  
  FireBug is almost certainly the best way to debug your javascript to test in a browser :) although it's worth noting some bugs manifest themselves in FFX and not IE (also vice versa), so check in both!  
Also Chrome is gaining some ground and it has some developer tools via right click -> inspect element or so.  Opera is another good one to check.
      Eclipse Webtools Platform JavaScript Development Toolkit    - install via the Install New Software menu in Eclipse       Aptana Studio 2 Eclipse Plugin    - there is an install/update link to use in Eclipse    
hi Dean Burge, can u provide help on how to install the "Eclipse Webtools Platform JavaScript Development Toolkit " plugin in eclipse...i can't able to proceed after -->New Software menu...
Help menu -> Install New Software -> in the Work with menu select "All Available Sites" -> expand the Programming Languages section below and select JavaScript Developer Tools then click next. Recently I also came across this which may be of use: http://code.google.com/p/jsdt/
hi Dean Burge,(thanks for ur reply man) i follwed ur steps up to "Developer Tools then click next" ..eclipse installed the plugin successfully and alert me to restart the eclipse, i restarted it even though i cant able to insert or add the break point in the js file.. and wht abt this"code.google.com/p/jsdt" link ..i downloaded it but i cant able to install in eclipse...
Better idea: download the web developer edition of eclipse that has WTP in it.
Parsing complex string using regex
  My regex skills are not very good and recently a new data element has thrown my parser into a loop     Take the following string     "+USER=Bob Smith-GROUP=Admin+FUNCTION=Read/FUNCTION=Write"     Previously I had the following for my regex : [+\\-/]     Which would turn the result into       USER=Bob Smith   GROUP=Admin   FUNCTION=Read   FUNCTION=Write   FUNCTION=Read       But now I have values with dashes in them which is causing bad output     New string looks like "+USER=Bob Smith-GROUP=Admin+FUNCTION=Read/FUNCTION=Write/FUNCTION=Read-Write"     Which gives me the following result , and breaks the key = value structure.     USER=Bob Smith   GROUP=Admin   FUNCTION=Read   FUNCTION=Write   FUNCTION=Read   Write       Can someone help me formulate a valid regex for handling this or point me to some key / value examples. Basically I need to be able to handle + - / signs in order to get combinations.  
When your data values can contain your delimiters regex is going to over complicate the situation dramatically.  Do you have any control over how the data comes to you?
Unfortunately not, the data is coming from many different sources which I am not in control of.
Might it be easier to look for the Key's you're looking for instead of the seperators?  Look for 'User', 'Group' and 'Function' and parse the corresponding results?
actually the "key" values I need to validate for correct input against a master data set. Same with the values. So really need to get a key / value pair to handle my full validation.
If you have a master data set which includes the keys, you could just search for the keys as AllenG suggested, or use a negative look-ahead in your regex so that you only break on a `-` if the next word is a key.
  You didn't specify what regex engine you're using, but this works if you've got lookahead/lookbehind.     It works on the premise that the keys are all uppercase only, whilst the values aren't - not sure if that's a valid assumption, but if it's not then as noted things will get complicated and messy.               And here's my attempt to explain that (not sure how much this makes sense):               For Java string->regex, backslashes need escaping (as would quotes, if there were any):               And if capturing groups are needed, just add parens round the appropriate parts:               The matching part of this, to turn it into newline delimited text, is something like...    
Sorry I am using the java pattern to execute the regex   Pattern p = Pattern.compile("[+\\-/]");   The values can be upper or lower case, I have no problem flipping them to be one case though.
Well if you can force the key and value to always be different case, that allows you to differentiate, which means it may be possible.  To use the above expression in Java, just double escape all the `\`s.
hhmm unfortunately I am unable to get this to work, it seems to work in my regex tester but in java code the results are funky to say the least. Not sure if I have the correct escaping where needed
Make sure you're matching now, not replacing (as before) - I've added a quick (untested) sample of how to do that.
Also, can you add your existing Java code to the question?
Thank you sir this has solved my issue.
  Based on your second example, this regex:    (\w+)=([\w|-|\s]+)     returns these results:       The parenthesis provide groupings for each element, so each match will contain two groups, the first will have the part before the = (so USER,GROUP,FUNCTION) and the second will have the value (Bob Smith, Admin, Read, Write, Read-Write)     You can also name the groups if that would make it easier:       Or if you don't care about the groups, you can remove the parens altogether    
The named group stuff there wont work, it's .NET only syntax.
Oh, and that regex is wrong - you can't use alternation inside a character class - you'd want either `((?:\w|-|\s)+)` or `([\w\-\s]+)` - except that incorrectly adds GROUP key to USER value.
This appears to give me the negatives of the values, how can i flip this to get the key=value combination rather then just the = or - signs ?
You'll need to switch from using `replace` to `match`.
  Another option, if you've got a limited set of keys, you could just match:               Which in Java I'd probably implement like this:       This relies on, for example "Write" not being a valid key (and if you can force the case of keys to be either "write" or "WRITE" then that means it'll work).             The matching part of this, to turn it into newline delimited text, is something like...    
  If you're delimiting fields with characters that can appear in values, you're screwed.     Suppose you receive a string like:       Should that parse into this?       Or should it parse into this?       How do you know?  What's your basis for deciding this?  
Facelet components layouts and javascript
  I have a question regarding the placement of javascript within facelet components. This is more regarding best practice/style than a programming issue, but I feel like all the solutions I have thought of have been hacks at best. Ok here is my scenario:     I have a facelet template like so (my faces, and apache Trinidad)...       Now, a facelet that wants to use this template would look like the following:       All this works quite well, but the problem I have is when I want to use a facelet component inside this page. If the facelet component has its own javascript code (jQuery stuff etc), how can I make it so that that javascript code is included in the header section of the generated html?  Any help would be appreciated. Please let me know if this is not clear or something... thanks in advance  
  You can include the script by either:           script type="text/javascript" src="externalScript.js"     /script           or        
Well, maybe I was unclear, but I know I can embed js in the facelet, but a re-usable facelet component is usually a fragment, i.e. it does not contain 100% proper html. In my case, I am embedding a facelet into a page that uses the template. The embedded facelet may only define    ...    for instance. So how could I add javascript in the embedded facelet page that would get rendered in the     tag of the main HTML output. Is that clearer?
Well, just put it in the template with `   ` and then define it with `   ` ?
  Assuming JSF2 Facelets, you should be able to do something with the      h:head     /     h:outputScript      tags.    
Damn, I wish I were using jsf 2.0. All kinds of good stuff like annotations and this solution you posted! Alas, stuck with the old version for now (1.1!!). Perhaps there is a way to simulate this behavior using a custom component that modifies the component tree? Hmmm, I could look into that, although a little bit out of my comfort level with this stuff. Thanks for the response... I don't have enough exp to upvote just yet
  Hey everyone, just in case anyone was also wondering, and stuck like me with the old jsf, or couldn't use the method proposed by    McDowell    for some reason, here is how i ended up doing it. It's sort of a lazy man's way, enforced only by convention, not code.     So here is my page that uses the template for it's layout. You can see that it embeds the    customFacelet    component twice.           And here is the facelet, that defines separately rendered areas for js and content...              
Unable to decode hex values in javascript tooltip
