How to transfer java array to javaScript array using jsp ?
I have a list of strings on my server which I am trying to get to the client in the form of an array . The code I am attempting to use is the following : Within the jsp I have a List String column I am attempting the following code : This code simply returns the first element in the columns list for every element in the colArray . I have also tried : which does not work either . I feel like I am making a little mistake somewhere and am just not seeing it . Is what I am trying to do possible in the way that I am attempting ? Thanks .
You're getting the JSP code that is executed on the server mixed up with the JavaScript code that's executed on the client . The snippet %= columns.get ( j++ ) % is executed once , on the server , and the JavaScript loop around it is irrelevant at this point . When it arrives the the client , the loop's body just says colArray[i ] = " first entry " ; which of course puts the same string into every element of the array . What you need to do instead is to have a loop execute on the server , like this : My JSP skills are rusty , and the syntax may be different , but I hope you get the idea . Edit : As was pointed out in the comments , you need to be VERY careful about escaping anything in those Strings that could cause them to be interpreted as JavaScript code ( most prominently quotation marks ) - especially if they contain user-generated content . Otherwise you're leaving your app wide open to Cross-site scripting and Cross-site request forgery attacks .
This will not work if the strings contain characters such as double-quote , backslash or newline . Such characters will need to be escaped .
I'd also add a semicolon to the end of the second line .
Once the JavaScript reaches the client , the server code has stopped executing . The server code does not execute " in parallel " with the client code . You have to build the entire JavaScript initialization in Java and send it , complete and executable , to the client : That is just one way to do it , you can also build the output " on the fly " by embedding the server code inside the [ and ] . I used this example to try to demonstrate the separation between building the string that comprises the client-side JavaScript and outputting that to the browser .
Try using JSON ( Javascript object notation ) it'd be quite simple to encode the array and decode it on javascript check it out here http://www.json.org/java/index.html
Exp Language :
The solutions posted above didn't work in my case , I needed an extra Javascript variable to do the transference :
