Should I use PHP or JSP for a chat website ?
I want to develop a website web chat application like yahoo . Only difference is that I want to make it web based not desktop . I will be implementing it in jsp / php with ajax . I want to know whether jsp or php will be better for this . What will be advantages or disadvantages of both . Which one of the two would you prefer and why ? Will jsp applicatioon will be slower then php ? I am thinking of using using struts with jsp and ajax . Will using of struts decrease speed ? I know jsp , java and struts but not php . Is php more difficult then jsp ?
How long is a piece of string ? Seriously . We don't know exactly what you want to do but I imagine most of the backend stuff will be very similar in difficulty between the two platforms . Most of the work will be platform independent front-end stuff .
It won't be slower because you are using one over the other . It will be slower only if your implementation is less efficient .
Whatever you choose keep in mind that web based chat app would probably need continuous updates from server to the clients ( so called Comet ) .
Use whichever one that you're a better programmer in . The task can be accomplished in either language just the same . You can argue endlessly about language features , the bottom line will be whatever works best for you .
JSP based web applications are a bit more harder to deploy than PHP based web applications , but you gain the ability of creating Servlets . PHP requires less server administration skills to setup properly and get running , is fast to learn , and allows fast creation of simple applications . None is better than the other , they are different in nature . Check your requirements , and take a decision based on that . If your requirements doesn't favor one over the other , choose whichever your team is more comfortable with .
+1 for basing your decision on * your requirements* .
Exactly ! Great answer . Just because you can program easier in PHP doesn't mean it will always be the best choice . The requirements should be used to point you in the right direction .
I've worked with both JSP and PHP . Even if I prefer PHP , I still work with JSP from time to time depending on my requirements . There is not really a better choice . It always , ** always ** depends on your requirements .
JSP isn't a language - it's just a view / presentation technology - so it's only to build a web Frontend - while the main programming happens somewhere else - in the Java Language , as a so-called Java Servlet . I personally like Java more , but PHP is okay , and if you only know PHP ( which I must assume from the questions :) ) you're better off doing it in PHP now - you can learn Java later ... Apart from that , the others asking for more background info are right - you need to see what technology meets your requirements best ...
People refer to JSP the same way as ASP.NET is referred to . It is a framework .
Which is incorrect , and therefore I point out how it really is :) No , really , maybe people not doing Java development themselves do that . Java folks neither say they build something in JSP instead of PHP , because JSP isn't a language , nor do they refer to JSP as a framework ( because it does not deliver a complete stack of functionalities ) - frameworks are things like struts , gwt , webwork , sitemesh - and even those only deliver the view part - a full stack web framework helps you with a lot more things than just the view .
If you know both well then choose any . But if facing difficulty then PHP is better to stay with . Reasons : fundamentally easy large no . of developer libraries are available . Easy to integrate with other scripting languages But structural syntax becomes a problem as they are so many in cumbersome manner . Use PHP tag library for that works just like JSTL . " Choosing language is not the problem but efficient implementation of code is the only hurdle . "
