ESRI frameworks : java vs javascript
I'm about to develop a web mapping application with ESRI Products like ArcGIS Server and Image Server . I can't find a good comparison between the Java Web ADF and the Javascript Framework . They're of course different because one is a full environment and the other is only client side but it's much more concise and the step to start is minimal . Another problem is that the Java Web ADF is not compatible with our current application server ( JBoss 4.2 . 2 ) and require an old 4.0 . 2 version . Someone out there has experience that can help me ? Many thanks .
Seems that everybody hate the Java Web ADF , http://www.spatiallyadjusted.com/2008/01/30/esris-web-adf-is-one-horrific-development-platform /
I don't have direct experience with the Java Web ADF , but I have worked with the . Net version and am now working with the Flex API . The main problem with the Web ADFs that I have seen and heard from other developers is that they're very cumbersome to use . The newer frameworks ( Javascript , Silverlight , and Flex ) are much lighter-weight , easier to use , and you can up to speed much quicker with them . For example , a test application I wrote withg the . Net ADF took me almost three weeks before I gave up on it . At that time I gave up using the ADF and just did WebService calls against ArcGIS Server since that was easier to do than to try to figure out the ADF . Contrast that to using the Flex API on a similar project , which I just started last week , and I have an almost complete app as of this morning . I would avoid the ADFs and go with the Javascript API .
What you need depends on what you want . If you want to create just a viewer ( as opposed to an application in which users can add ( e.g. draw ) geographical data ) , by all means , use the javascript api ! I've been working with the web adf ( v9.3 ) for some time now and am still frustrated at every turn . Primarily for its lack of proper documentation , but also for various other reasons , such as these : It requires you to use the jsf reference implementation , but it does not allow you to use some of its basic functionality , such as ( f :) subviews . This makes it impossible to use any templating systems , such as facelets . Lots of stuff you want to be able to configure is hardcoded in esri's jar files . For example , the map MUST be directly under form > which must be the first element of the DOM tree . If not , map-movement listeners such as the ContinueousPanListener are unable to find the map and hence fail at updating the map position . It's impossible to code your jsp pages in xml style , since the web adf inlines pieces of at a lot of places in your code , with xslt . Its learning curve is very steep and without the proper docs , you'll be looking for days or even weeks on how to do the most trivial things . Some of these end up to be downright impossible or impractical , because you're not adopting esri's mindset . The default interface is not very intuitive . You may still end up doing lots of work in javascript to get the way the application draws to your liking . The undo functionality requires a versioned database , which is impractical / impossible for application that serves more than 10 or so users at the same time , plus , the round trip to the server for every undo action is a waste . In short : You can make some interesting apps and if you know your stuff , there's work a plenty to be found in the sector , but if its just for ' some project ' , I'd switch to some .. any ! other framework , such as openGeo ..
I accepted your answer because is the most complete , but thanks to everybody for yours time .
Web ADF was ESRI's first attempt to create an ArcGIS Server simplified API . However , as time progressed , the Web ADF ended up with its own abstractions that were as complicated as the " standard " ArcGIS Server ArcObjects API and not as powerful . Therefore , I would recommend the later incarnations ... javascript , flex , etc
Its depends on the requirements . I java web adf you could have more flexiblity to use arcobjects compared to java script api . i am using . net adf i was wanted to move to jsapi . but due to limitation of arcobject usage in jsapi i am still with web adf . I think still jsapi is not grown as compared to web adf . for just viwer small task js api is fine . but if you are creating complex tasks geoprocessing then its worth to stick with web adf .
there is good blog post on ESRI Developer Blog today . have a look .
If you need to edit geospatial data then you have to use the Web ADF which is access to the ArcObjects . If you are just working with viewing data maybe some redlines that are not saved to your geodatabase then JavaScript API works nice . Geoprocessing can be done in the JSAPI . You can also publish models and use them in the JSAPI . I hear that the newer APIs - JavaScript API will have the ability to edit in the near future . As is mentioned the web ADF is broad and fairly complex . It has a good learning curve to it . I have just started getting my head around it and figuring out the logic . I am using the . NET ADF v9.3.1 I have not had many problems with it once I started figuring out the API . It is not for the casual user .
You can do editing via the JSAPI using a geoprocessing service too . Version 2.0 ( due out with ArcGIS Server 9.4 ) will have editing capabilities built in . That said , if a plan involves exposing editing of geospatial data via a public facing webpage , that plan needs to be rethought . If you are working internally , ArcGIS Engine is probably a better option .
Stay far , far away from the Java Web ADF . I would rather stick hot irons in my eyes than develop with the ADF . It doesn't work well with other JSF frameworks , any custom functionality results in you trying to develop javascript - but only by first embedding the javascript within XSL page fragments . It is cumbersome , confusing , but - at least it is slow . ESRI is not recommending the Java Web ADF for any new applications .
We've just gone through the same thing and it would appear the ESRI REST APIs are the way to go if you want a lightweight services based application with a ' rich ' front end , rather than the ADF bloat . There's a good summary of all the ESRI frameworks on their UK site here .
Editing with the REST API and the client API's ( JS , Flex , Silverlight ) will be available at version 10 ( verison 9.4 renamed ) which will be released in Summer 2010 . This thread is a bit old now , but I concur with those who suggest not using the Java ADF . Use the JavaScript , Flex or Silver light API's as they scale much better . If you need to perform GIS actions on the server then use the SOAP API in a custom web service . Only look at ArcObjects when you definitely have to and then make sure you use a Server Object Utility or extension to give yourself the best chance of making a online application that runs quickly . http://edndoc.esri.com/arcobjects/9.2/net_server_doc/developer/samples/web_applications/arcgis_simple_server_object_extension/8e8b2bf6-1877-4c48-80fe-266f5fa70f57.htm
