How to Prevent an Applet from Unloading across web pages ?
I have a large applet that takes some 40 seconds to initialize ( cabs are cached so ignore download time for this question ) . The issue is , if the user goes to Page A which launches the applet ( single window ) and then navigates to page B , the applet is unloaded . If the user goes back to Page A , they incur the 40 seconds init time once again . I'd like to be able to launch the applet , incurring the 40 seconds init time once and only once . The applet needs to reside inside a single browser window ( the same window as my web application ) . In other words , I cannot launch the applet in a popup . Does anyone have any creative ideas around how to prevent the applet unloading ?
Put the Applet in a frame that doesn't unload , or prevent the user from going to another page in the web page that contains the Applet .
The only option would be to put you content in an iframe that encompasses your whole document and use absolute positionning for the applet . With a css like this one : There are MANY drawbacks : The applet will always be positionned at the same place , no matter the page You will suffer to get the iframe full width and full height , especially in IE It's possible you will also suffer to have the applet showing properly ( an object on top of an iframe , I can't imagine what troubles you'll run into ) The applet will stay if your user click to a link leading outside of your site unless you set a target for the link ( ie , target='top ' or target='__blank ')
If I did this , the browser URL would never change from page to page . Not really what I'm looking for .
I thought maybe there'd be a way to popup a tiny browser window and have the applet load in that , then using Javascript somehow pull in the applet from the smaller window into the larger browser . I don't think I can manipulate the DOM in this way though . Any other ideas ?
You could show a warning , this way : This works in allmost every browser , but you cannot change the text surrounding your text .
