Using Bing as local search
For an ajax app I'm doing , I was using the google local search api to help enter in address info . For example , if the user needs to fill out employment information , typing in the business name would provide a list of matching businesses , then clicking one would fill out all of the address fields . However , we can't use it because of the restrictions on google's api . We have a closed https app which just makes it out of the question . Because of the https requirement , we have to use the server as a proxy which means a pretty lenient usage restriction . That makes Bing a good choice . The REST api seems like a great way to go , and it works well enough , but with one problem . The center point location needs to be specified as a latitude and longitude . Users will be supplying the information in a zipcode or city / state format . This clearly means geocoding . What is the best route to take ? Is there a good way to get around geocoding that I'm missing ? Looking at the Bing APIs , it appears that geocoding is offered as a SOAP web service that costs money . If I'm doing that should I just use google maps for geocoding - there's an enterprise version of maps with https ? Any other suggestions ? I am using Java on the server and obviously javascript on the front end . It's a javascript heavy app , so a javascript solution would be welcome as well .
So if I'm reading your question right , you need a way to go from zip code / city / state to longitude and latitude ? If that's the case , there are a number of free and paid databases out there that have this information . The free ones are generally not 100% up to date , but the paid ones are pretty reasonably priced and would include periodic updates with the latest and greatest data .
so you're suggesting I do the geocoding on the server because it's limited enough ?
@Russell - A couple ways you could do it . You could do the geocoding on your server with a database ( as I suggested in my answer ) or you could create a service on your server that you call via HTTPS which would then call out to Bing / Google via plain old HTTP . This would keep the pages as HTTPS , but just use normal HTTP under the hood - if that's acceptable from a security perspective on your end anyways .
That is actually how we interface with Bing now , but it doesn't do geocoding . We could do the geocoding with google , but it has request limits that our server would surpass .
Yahoo has geocoding with rate limit of 5000 per day on a REST service . http://developer.yahoo.com/maps/rest/V1/geocode.html Have you looked into Yahoo ! Maps with YQL ?
