Issue with IE security on page opened from javascript
I have a Java web application running in JBOSS with Tomcat with two web applications ( contexts ) running on it . A button press on one of the applications opens runs a javascript command to open a new window with a page from the other . The problem I seem to be having is that this raises a security alert in IE . with the following message : I can't really ask my customer to add an exception to " http:// " what are the likely causes for it not picking up the site ? The browser is correctly pointed at the full url for the page ( Ie www.something.net:8080/blah/somepage.jsp ) the browser is IE7 with enhanced security running on windows 2003 .
" I can't really ask my customer to add an exception to " http:// "" - you can ask , but they won't be able to do it . IE doesn't let you enter exceptions that are that wide-ranging .
Do the two applications have different domains ? IE is preventing the cross-site scripting . Can you not just have a link to the other site ? EDIT : If this is on Windows Server 2003 , then the only way that I've managed to get around it is to disable to enhanced browser security . If this is the case , then you shouldn't really be browsing from a server in the first place . Edit2:I'm guessing that it is the enhanced browser security that is doing this . Check out this link : http://support.microsoft.com/kb/815141 on info about it . Your choices are to either to disable it , add an exception for that site , or use another browser .
No they both have the same domain one is www.example.com/app1/page.jsp the other is www.example.com/app2/anotherpage.jsp
see edit2 in answer
My issue is that there is no " site " to add as an exception . It's complaining about " http:// " not another website .
Can you post the code ?
Unfortunately I can't post the source A : Because of an NDA B : The Javaprojects are Huge The javascript that loads the page is just window.open ( " URL ") ; nothing special
Thats irritating I just noticed that SO had parsed " h-t-t-p " as a link ...
IE Enhanced Security Configuration is deliberately designed to prevent general purpose browsing from servers . Folks who want to do workstation-style browsing and just happen to be on a server SKU should disable ESC . What's the exactly line of code ? window.open ( " http://fullURL " , etc ) , or something like var v= window.open ( " about :b lank ") ; v.location.href =etc ?
it's window.open ( " path ") ; If thats the case then I needn't worry about it though I was just testing that an install had worked by running it locally .
You need to uninstall " Explorer Enhanced Security " , which is on by default in Windows Servers , before IE will act like a normal browser . :) Workstations shouldn't get this problem .
