Hooking a GWT event onto an element in an external iframe
I am writing a GWT app that involves interacting with an external document in an iframe . As a proof of concept , I am trying to attach a click handler to a button . The following works in javascript Trying to do the equivalent in GWT , I did the following : The following is the ElementWrapper class : The code to find the button works fine but the actual click event handler is not getting invoked . Has anybody had a similar issue before , and how did you resolve it ? Thanks in advance , Tin
You could use JSNI to reuse your JavaScript piece of code . Your javascript code would call a gwt method on an object that would throw it on behalf of the button in the iframe . As to why GWT code does not work -- I guess that is because they use some layer on top of regular browser events that probably cannot span more than 1 frame . That's just a guess though . You could file this as a feature / bug request agains GWT team . If I am right your code looks just fine .
Cool , thanks for the reply . I guess I'll explore the JSNI path , though I want to stay away from writing custom javascript as much as possible .
After researching this further , I found that the iframe is irrelevant . The same behaviour doesn't work on a normal button on the host page . I basically fixed it by using JSNI to replicate part of GWT's event handling mechanism . The following works : Where CustomElementWrapper is : Finally , the ClickEventManager , where the actual work happens is : Personally , I hate this solution because I appear to be duplicating GWT's event handling and quite possibly introducing nasty javascript memory leaks . Any ideas on why my first post doesn't work ( remembering that the iframe aspect is a red herring ) , would be appreciated . Thanks , Tin
Thank you , thank you ! This was exactly what I needed to get it to work in IE7 !
I expect the problem is that the GWT method onAttach() is not called when you use the wrapping as in your first example . You can try to use the static wrap method on the Button widget . Although to use this the input must be of type button . Or have a look at the implementation of the wrap method . Here is the modified code when using the wrap method :
Hilbrand is right about the problem being that the GWT method onAttach() was not called . I implemented your original solution , adding the following method to ElementWrapper : And called added wrapper.onAttach() after the ElementWrapper is created . Works like a charm !
Thank you ! I knew there had to be a cleaner way :)
Please see my previous answer . A slight modification to your original solution will make it work .
You may find this helpful : You will then be able to make arbitrary containers into widget containers : And bind events to arbitrary elements : Specifically in your case , try this : It's always mystified me that GWT makes doing this so difficult and poorly documented .
Instead of using iframes i suggest you simply make a http request from GWT via com.google.gwt.http.client.RequestBuilder . Like so :
